Self-Challenging Improves Cross-Domain
Generalization
Zeyi Huang(cid:63), Haohan Wang(cid:63), Eric P. Xing, and Dong Huang
School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University
{zeyih@andrew, haohanw@cs, epxing@cs, donghuang}.cmu.edu
Abstract. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) conduct image clas-
sification by activating dominant features that correlated with labels.
Whenthetrainingandtestingdataareundersimilardistributions,their
dominant features are similar, leading to decent test performance. The
performance is nonetheless unmet when tested with different distribu-
tions, leading to the challenges in cross-domain image classification. We
introduce a simple training heuristic, Representation Self-Challenging
(RSC),thatsignificantlyimprovesthegeneralizationofCNNtotheout-
of-domaindata.RSCiterativelychallenges(discards)thedominantfea-
tures activated on the training data, and forces the network to activate
remaining features that correlates with labels. This process appears to
activate feature representations applicable to out-of-domain data with-
out prior knowledge of new domain and without learning extra network
parameters. We present theoretical properties and conditions of RSC
forimprovingcross-domaingeneralization.Theexperimentsendorsethe
simple, effective, and architecture-agnostic nature of our RSC method.
Keywords: cross-domain generalization, robustness
1 Introduction
Imagine teaching a child to visually differentiate “dog” from “cat”: when
presented with a collection of illustrations from her picture books, she may
immediatelyanswerthat“catstendtohavechubbyfaces”andendthelearning.
However,ifwecontinuetoaskformoredifferences,shemaystarttonoticeother
features like ears or body-size. We conjecture this follow-up challenge question
plays a significant role in helping human reach the remarkable generalization
ability. Most people should be able to differentiate “cat” from “dog” visually
even when the images are presented in irregular qualities. After all, we did not
stop learning after we picked up the first clue when we were children