encoder [10]. Li et al. applied MMD constraints to an autoencoder via
adversarial training [15].
Recently, meta-learning based techniques start to be used to solve DG prob-
lems. Li et al. alternates domain-specific feature extractors and classifiers across
domains via episodic training, but without using inner gradient descent up-
date [14]. Balaji et al. proposed MetaReg that learns a regularization function
(e.g., weighted (cid:96) loss) particularly for the networks classification layer, while
1
excluding the feature extractor [1].
Further, recent DG works forgo the requirement of source domains parti-
tions and directly learn the cross-domain generalizable representations through
a mixed collection of training data. Wang et al. extracted robust feature rep-
resentation by projecting out superficial patterns like color and texture [31].
Wanget al.penalizedmodelstendencyinpredictingwithlocalfeaturesinorder
to extract robust globe representation [30]. RSC follows this more recent path
and directly activates more features in all source domain data for DG without
knowledge of the partition of source domains.
DG through Augmenting Source Domain:Thesemethodsaugmentthe
sourcedomaintoawiderspanofthetrainingdataspace,enlargingthepossibility
ofcoveringthespanofthedatainthetargetdomain.Forexample,Anauxiliary
domain classifier has been introduced to augment the data by perturbing input
data based on the domain classification signal [23]. Volpi et al. developed an
adversarial approach, in which samples are perturbed according to fictitious
target distributions within a certain Wasserstein distance from the source [29].
A recent method with state-of-the art performance is JiGen [4], which leverages
self-supervised signals by solving jigsaw puzzles.
Key difference: These approaches usually introduce a model-specific DG
model and rely on prior knowledge of the target domain, for instance, the tar-
4 Huang et al.
get spatial permutation is assumed by JiGen [4]. In contrast, RSC is a model-
agnostictrainingalgorithmthataimstoimprovethecross-domainrobustnessof
any given model. More importantly, RSC does not utilize any knowledge of