correspondtoa[1×1×512]featurevectorinZ.Afterthat,thenewfeaturetensor
Z is forwarded to the new network output. Finally, the network is updated
new
throughback-propagation.Wereferthissetupasspatial-wiseRSC,whichisthe
default RSC for the rest of this paper.
Channel-wise RSC: RSC can also be implemented by dropping features
of the channels with high-gradients. The rational behind the channel-wise RSC
lies in the convolutional nature of DNNs. The feature tensor of size [7×7×512]
can be considered a decomposed version of input image, where instead of the
RGB colors, there are 512 different characteristics of the each pixels. The C
characteristics of each pixel contains different statistics of training data from
that of the spatial feature statistics.
For channel-wise RSC, global average pooling is applied along the spatial
dimension of G, and produce a weighting vector of size [1×512]. Using this
vector, we select top p percentage of its 512 cells, and mute its corresponding
features in Z. Here, each of the 512 cells correspond to a [7×7] feature matrix
in Z. After that, the new feature tensor Z is forwarded to the new network
new
output. Finally, the network is updated through back-propagation.
Batch Percentage: Some dropout methods like curriculum dropout [17]
do not apply dropout at the beginning of training, which improves CNNs by
10 Huang et al.
learning basic discriminative clues from unchanged feature maps. Inspired by
these methods, we randomly apply RSC to some samples in each batch, leaving
the other unchanged. This introduces one extra hyperparameter, namely Batch
Percentage:thepercentageofsamplestoapplyRSCineachbatch.Wealsoapply
RSC to top percentage of batch samples based on cross-entropy loss. This setup
is slight better than randomness.
Detailed ablation study on above extensions will be conducted in the exper-
iment section below.
4 Experiments
4.1 Datasets
We consider the following four data collections as the battleground to evaluate
RSC against previous methods.
– PACS [13]: seven classes over four domains (Artpaint, Cartoon, Sket