yofthesepeopleareinferior
ParaGeDi it’sentirelytruethattheBlackisaminority
MARCO: Itistotallyfairtosaythatsomepeoplearewrong.
Table10: Examplesofrewritesfromeachmethodonalldatasets’validationsets
Instructions
Decide which of the sentences best answers each question based on toxicity.
Participation restriction: providers/turkers for this task cannot currently be employed by or a student at the University of Washington.
Full Instructions (Expand/Collapse)
Instructions
Background
Thank you for participating in this survey! We have tasked you with selecting the rewritten text from our AI system on the
basis of toxicity compared to some original text. We feed an original sentence into an AI model and it tries to rewrite the We want to better understand the effectiveness of various
text such that it is less toxic/offensive while retaining as much meaning as possible. Please use your best judgment in rewriting methods by AI systems that can remove or
answering these survey questions. Note that some of this content may be difficult to read due to its toxic nature. reduce offensive/toxic content from text. The following
rewrites you see will compare the outputs of different
Given two generated rewrites as options for each prompt, please answer the questions below as defined on the following methods, so that we can understand the impact and
category: limitations of each one. As stated in the instructions,
Toxicity some of this content may be very difficult to read, but
A senten ce is toxic if it is rude, disrespectful, or unreasonable, and more likely to make you leave a discussion or hopefully you can help us in our mission to mitigate this
give up on sharing your perspective. phenomena in the real world!
Please note:
While we provide the option to rate the two rewrites as "equal" with respect to each category, please only choose
this option when there is truly no meaningful comparison to be made.
Task
Sentences:
original sentence:
Maybe you should let the real men deal with this problem, sweetie.
Rewrite A: Rewrite B:
Miss, maybe you should let the men deal with the construction. You should help them deal with the problem.
Q1: Which of these rewrites is less toxic?
If one of the completions is empty, select the non-empty