middle), there is a negative correlation between population density and
epidemic spread. The Spearman correlation coefficient between population density and weekly change in
estimated incidence (right) has gone from positive to negative through the course of the epidemic.
Proportionally-Increasing Positive Counts are Indistinguishable from Expanding
Testing Without Knowledge of Testing Protocols
A counter-intuitive statistical property which is made clear by this model is that an increasing number of
positive tests does not necessarily increase the estimated incidence. Specifically, Eq. 5 shows that increasing
the number of positive tests alongside a proportionate increase in the number of negative tests does not
affect the estimated cumulative incidence. This represents the counter-intuitive property that if we observe
only the counts of test results, an exponentially-spreading infection is statistically indistinguishable from
exponentially-growing testing capacity unless we have extra information about the testing protocols. For
instance, we can consider a infection which is fixed in some proportion of the full population (i.e. not
spreading). In this hypothetical case, if testing were to grow at an exponential rate, then the counts of
positive tests would grow at a similar exponential rate without the infection spreading at all. Thus, if we
believe the incidence of the epidemic is truly increasing while the proportion of positive tests is remaining
the same, then we must implicitly believe that the testing protocol is changing over time. Our parameter
c(t) provides a way to quantify this change.
Discussion
In this paper, we describe the development of a novel probabilistic model to estimate incidence of SARS-
CoV-2 while adjusting for testing protocols. The model incorporates test results and a single, interpretable
free parameter which was estimated from several external epidemiologic studies.
Weusedtheresultsfromourmodeltoevaluaterecentepidemicspreadineachofthe50states. Wereport
substantial differences between unadjusted and adjusted incidence for selected states. These results can be
usedtohelpinformstatepolicy-makersabouttheselectionandimplementationofpublichealthpoliciesand
strategies during the Covid-19 pandemic. Our analysis also found that the state’s population density, which
was previously positively correlated with increasing incidence, is more recently negatively correlated.
This study has several limitations. First, our results are dependent upon the quality of the external
studies. However, we used several seroprevalence studies to