medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.07.09.20141762; this version posted July 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.
Disentangling Increased Testing from Covid-19 Epidemic Spread
Benjamin Lengericha, Willie Neiswangerb, Eugene J. Lengerichc, and Eric P. Xinga,b
aComputer Science Department, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
bMachine Learning Department, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
cDepartment of Public Health Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, Hershey, PA 17033
July 9, 2020
Abstract
To design effective disease control strategies, it is critical to understand the incidence of diseases.
In the Covid-19 epidemic in the United States (caused by outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 virus), testing
capacity was initially very limited and has been increasing at the same time as the virus has been
spreading. When estimating the incidence, it can be difficult to distinguish whether increased numbers
of positive tests stem from increases in the spread of the virus or increases in testing. This has made it
verydifficulttoidentifylocationsinwhichtheepidemicposesthelargestpublichealthrisks. Here,weuse
a probabilistic model to quantify beliefs about testing strategies and understand implications regarding
incidence. We apply this model to estimate the incidence in each state of the United States, and find
that: (1)theCovid-19epidemicislikelytobemorewidespreadthanreportedbylimitedtesting,(2)the
Covid-19epidemicgrowthinthesummermonthsislikelysmallerthanitwasduringthespringmonths,
and (3) the regions which are at highest risk of Covid-19 epidemic outbreaks are not always those with
the largest number of positive test results.
Introduction
In mid-June 2020, the number of positive PCR test results for SARS-CoV-2 infection began to increase in
selected US states for the first sustained period since the epidemic appeared to peak in