11]. Therefore, we disease prevention (taking preventive measures), health care
contend that People’s Daily would also communicate services (the actions that the health care system is taking),
information about COVID-19 and interact with the public on scientific advances (discovery of new evidence showing how
its social media platform, Sina Weibo. In our study, we the disease is spread), and lifestyle risk factors (personal habits
integrated factors, including health crises framing in the media that are likely to lead to the disease) [22,40,42]. In the
context [22,40-42], message style in health communication application of these frames, Liu and Kim [22] noted that most
[13,23], and interactive features [27,28] to examine epidemic corporate and government organizations in the United States
communication and public engagement in China. We then used the frames of health crises and health issues much more
developed an integrated framework to investigate the via traditional media than social media in disseminating
relationship between these factors and the levels of public messages about the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic [22]. Yet corporate
engagement. Since our study also investigated public organizations framed the pandemic as a health crisis rather than
engagement in the form of likes, comments, and shares, it might as a general health issue, meaning that they did not emphasize
offer insights on how effectively social media platforms such the long-term actions that could prevent the health issue from
as Weibo can be used for epidemic communication. arising in future. In addition to this, Liu and Kim [22] noted
that government organizations were more likely to use
Developing an Integrated Framework
uncertainty subsumed under the health crisis frame whereas
The WHO has advised governments to take proactive steps to corporate organizations tended to use the conflict indicator [22].
communicate with the public about epidemics, as the sharing In another study, Shih et al [41] noted that the frames of
of critical information about the epidemic can minimize the governmental action and consequence were predominantly used
spread of the disease and foster the public’s collaboration with by journalists to craft stories about epidemics including mad
the government [10,43,44]. Social media serves as a major cow disease, West Nile virus, and avian flu in the print version
communication platform for the government and public health of New York Times [41].
authorities to provide timely health information to the public
