 account from January 20, 2020,
• RQ3: Could the dimensions (ie, content frames, style, and to March 11, 2020, were harnessed for quantitative content
interactive features) or subdimensions interact analysis. To systematically detect statistically valid outliers, we
synergistically to increase or decrease the levels of public employed z score to quantify the unusualness in the observations
engagement with the government’s communication of [74]. There were 12 posts (2%) identified as outliers and
COVID-19? removed from the data pool. These outliers included posts that
were significantly longer or shorter, which would have otherwise
By examining the impact of content frames, message style, and
caused problems during content analysis, as the length of the
interactive features on public engagement in COVID-19
posts would affect the number of counts in content themes,
communication, our study aims to provide meaningful and
style, and interactive features. Consequently, 608 posts and the
critical information for governments, health organizations,
related public responses were included in the corpus for content
communication professionals, and researchers regarding the
analysis.
health emergency communication strategies employed and their
effectiveness in raising the public’s awareness of and urgent Content Analysis and Coding Scheme
need for taking preventive measures against COVID-19. Content analysis was employed to examine COVID-19
communication in the 608 posts of People’s Daily’s Sina Weibo.
Methods
Content analysis is a widely employed method in the study of
technical and media communication [75]. It is concerned with
Data Collection
the context in which the occurrences of words, phrases, signs,
We selected the government-owned social media platform and sentences are recorded and analyzed to provide an in-depth
People’s Daily’s Sina Weibo account for data collection. understanding [75]. Researchers can design a variety of
People’s Daily is the official newspaper of the Central categories based on their interactions with the data to develop
Committee of the Communist Party of China [69] for an integrated framework for quantitative studies [76]. Content
disseminating government information to the Chinese public analysis can be applied to “virtually any form of linguistic
[70]. It is the most influential and authoritative newspaper in communication to answer the classic questions of who says
China, having a circulation of 3 million, and is ranked as one what to whom,