 declared the COVID-19
or thoughts. Last, we built on prior public relations studies
outbreak a pandemic, meaning that the regional epidemic had
[27,38,68] and coded the number of interactive features used
become a global public health emergency [4]. Subsequently,
to facilitate the creation of the interactive dialogic loop. These
all online posts related to COVID-19 were manually extracted
http://www.jmir.org/2020/8/e21360/ J Med Internet Res 2020 | vol. 22 | iss. 8 | e21360 | p. 5
XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes)
•
RenderX
JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INTERNET RESEARCH Ngai et al
interactive features included (1) links to external sources, (2) effect of content and style on public engagement in the form of
use of hashtags, (3)use of questions to solicit feedback, and (4) shares, comments, and likes (RQ3).
use of multimedia (see Multimedia Appendix 1 for the
To test the assumptions of normality in ANOVA, we performed
exemplifications of coding items and examples extracted from
the Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Shapiro-Wilk tests on the
the collected posts).
normality of the variables. Most variables were not normally
Regarding RQ2 and 3, we recoded the dimensions of content, distributed, but we decided to continue using ANOVA as it has
style, and interactive loop using the dominant category for proven to be robust and valid in testing the difference between
performing the analysis of variance (ANOVA) tests on content, independent variables, even if the normality assumption is
style, and interactive loop on public engagement. For example, violated [77]. In addition, we conducted the test of homogeneity
we found 43% of the sentences in post number 128 belonging of variances when performing ANOVA. When the assumption
to action and 29% to disease prevention; 57% of sentences of homogeneity of variances was violated, the ANOVA results
employed a narrative style of communication while 43% were were replaced with those of the Welch ANOVA.
nonnarrative; 1 link provided an external source, 2 pairs of
As for RQ2, which involved examining the relationship between
hashtags, and 1 multimedia feature. We then recorded the
the 12