ual phenomena in a wide variety of genres, and various types of intertextual
links have been identified. Among the more influential work was that by Devitt (1991) whose
ethnographic account of how tax accountants produced texts led her to posit three types of
intertextuality: functional, generic, and referential. To Devitt (1991), a text is functionally
linked to another text(s) if it has been prompted by other texts or interacts with other texts in
the specific community. For example, an accountant could draw on a particular accounting text
as being part of the specific community. Generic intertextuality exists when texts belonging to
different genres co-occur for various purposes in a situated activity. For example, Devitt (1991)
found thirteen tax accounting genres that matched with the situations of “repeated, structured
activities and relationships of the profession” (pp.339-40). The type of intertextuality can also
mean the links writers/speakers make to prior experience of texts of the same genre for mental
resources when producing or reading a text.
Referential intertextuality occurs in a text that derives its ideas from another text. In her corpus
of accounting genres, Devitt (1991) found different types of ideas being referred to by the
writers. Among them were the subject matter (often linked to prior communication), taxation
guidelines and regulations often with their sources included as authorities to justify the various
decisions made. Tax accountants also used many explicit references including citations and
7
quotations to general tax publications and IRS documents in a bid to enhance the
persuasiveness of the text. Our study is concerned with this last type of intertextuality and it
examines the types of ideas referred to by corporate leaders in their messages to stakeholders,
and how this referential intertextuality is manifested through linguistic devices in the corporate
communication arena.
2.2 Manifestations of referential intertextuality
There have been different attempts to identify the methods or strategies that writers adopt to
incorporate ideas from other sources into their own. Fairclough (1992a; 1992b; 1992c), in his
discussions of how to perform critical discourse analyses, pointed out that intertextuality
(presumably referential) refers to “parts of specific other texts [that] are incorporated into a
text” (1992c, p. 273).