 The boundaries between the representing discourse and the represented
discourse can be marked or unmarked. Direct representation (i.e. boundary-marked) denotes
an explicit boundary between the voice of the person being reported and the voice of the
reporter, whereas indirect representation (i.e. boundary-unmarked) does not clearly express
whether something is a represented discourse (Fairclough, 1992c, p.282). Fairclough, however,
did not particularly discuss what boundary markers are nor did he offer a systematic analytical
framework for identifying and examining intertextuality.
Scollon (2004) argues that intertextuality varies across genres and different discourse
communities use it for different purposes by highlighting the varying techniques to make use
of information and language in journalistic writing as distinct from academic genres.
Journalists regularly embrace both direct and indirect quotations while academic writers
seldom opt for direct quotations. This contrast has been evident in a wide range of studies. For
8
example, Schokkenbroek’s (1999) work on news reporting shows that quotations from
witnesses’ accounts are often used to construct events reported while quotations from
commentators are co-opted to indirectly evaluate the events. Meanwhile, citation studies show
that in academic writing, ideas tend to be summarised or generalised more frequently than
directly quoted (see, e.g. Hyland 2004). The intertextuality in academic genres also displays a
variety of purposes and sophisticated conventions (e.g., integral vs non-integral citation and
formalized citation styles). Hyland (2004) in particular argues that the propositional content of
citations in academic writing is mostly drawn on to construct knowledge while the names cited
are indicated as a way not to attribute the knowledge to the sources but reflect some form of
social interaction with other scholars in the field. In addition, Harwood (2009) has highlighted
the differences in citation functions of academic writing in the computer science and sociology
disciplines.
More variations in intertextual manifestations can be evidenced by studies of workplace
communication. For example, Koskela (2013) has found intertextual manifestation in
information policy, communication policy and communication strategy texts with
commonalities among the three being no direct quotations used nor comments or evaluations
of a text, while some indirect quotations with attribution and mentioning company documents
or statements were evident. Devitt (1991) also identified four methods that