 of intertextuality to disseminate
succinct professional corporate information. Core values and social responsibility are
supported through implicit intertextual types such as indirect quotes and referring readers to
additional documents. A greater use of first-person, second-person and third-person pronouns
in leader messages in the US suggest that these relational markers are used to build credibility
in stakeholders through showing the importance of the leader and more importantly, the shared
interests and knowledge between the leader and stakeholders.
35
6. Conclusion and Implications for Teaching and Research
This study analysed how intertextuality is realised linguistically in the move structure of
corporate leader messages through the use of types of intertextuality and sources of reference.
The study is novel since it is the first to examine the above and the findings are relevant and
informative in helping us understand how texts are constructed with intertextual references in
the professional corporate communication context. This research provides evidence that
corporate leaders or corporate communication practitioners are knowledgeable of the history
and types of intertextuality in a message and by extension the various links and
interconnections that appear in a text.
Adapting and illustrating Bazerman’s (2004) intertextuality typology to the professional
communication context constitutes applied research while using quantitative and qualitative
methods to conduct intertextual analyses confirm integrative testing and development in the
field. From a pragmatic perspective, we have offered a better understanding of the possible
construction of corporate identities through a comparison of the PRC corporations’ leader
messages and their US counterparts. Extended value is henceforth given to academics and
corporate communication practitioners.
This study would benefit students studying intercultural or business communication in that
students’ awareness could be raised with regards to how corporate leader messages draw on
prior text implicitly or explicitly in different cultures within the corporate communication
context in the real-world. Bremner (2008) supports this point by noting that the goal of
36
intertextuality is for students to “see the texts they read and produce as part of a wider, ongoing
system of intertextually related practice, grounded in a professional context” (p.319).
In ESP, instructional materials often lack tasks that focus on intertextuality, so the findings
from this study may enable learners to have a more realistic context in relation to corporate
workplace communication (Bremner, 2008). Using corporate