. Flowerdew & Wan, 2006; Gimenez, 2006) extending to real world business
communication practices in media, education, health and social care industries (Barron, Brunce,
& Nunan, 2002; Cheng & Mok, 2008; Pan, Scollon, & Scollon, 2002; van Dijk, 1997; Ventola,
1999). Bremner (2014, p.273) focused on public relations in general, showing how an intern
acquired three genres (press release, media coverage and pitch), and noting that the intern learnt
from using explicit and implicit references. However, we found that research on the linguistic
manifestations of intertextuality exhibited in Global 500 corporate leader messages and in
which specific moves the intertextual references are exhibited in such messages in different
cultures has, thus far, been limited. We also wanted to examine the sources that corporate
leaders would draw on for the ideas they incorporate into their messages.
4
The foregoing discussion has shown the importance of corporate leader messages and the
dearth of pedagogically oriented research into corporate leader messages in ESP. Researchers
(e.g. Evans, 2012; Williams, 1988) have expressed concerns that the lack of such practical
investigation leads to a mismatch between business/corporate communication
textbooks/classroom practices and the real world of corporate communication in the workplace.
As Bremner (2008) highlighted, business communication textbooks or, in the context of this
study, corporate communication textbooks, very often do not take into account intertextuality
in the tasks for analysis, and therefore do not clearly inform students: “the key point that writing
is an ongoing, dialogic process, and that this dialogue will have an impact on the way they
construct texts” (p.310). This paper therefore aims to narrow the gap between the real corporate
communication world and the classroom by offering suggestions on the design of corporate
communication tasks incorporating intertextuality into leader messages. In particular, we
investigate the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality in the form of the use of either direct
quotes or indirect quotes, the sources of texts referred to (i.e. with a focus on corporate
information, government policies, societal, economic or technological issues, etc.), and the
intertextual references employed in particular moves in messages to reveal the key features of
communication in corporations through the use of quantitative and qualitative analyses. In
