 indirect speech (T3) and recognisable phrasing (T4)
in leader messages from both the PRC and US, a variation in the use of metadiscourse,
particularly the use of relational and person markers was evident. Metadiscourse refers to the
use of linguistic elements that help “realize the rational, credible and affective appeals that
contribute to the persuasiveness of a text” (Hyland, 1998, p.226), and can be viewed as an
important means of revealing a corporate leader’s voice as well as building leader-stakeholder
relationships. Metadiscourse shows how writing reflects a sensitivity to intertextual
relationships (Hyland, 2000). As suggested by Hyland (1998), relational markers such as the
use of second-person and third-person pronouns explicitly refer to the relationship between the
writer and reader, and similarly, the leader-stakeholder relationship, in our study. Person
markers refer to the explicit presence of the author in the text and is indicated by the frequency
of the use of first-person pronouns (Hyland, 2000). After scrutinising the sentences that
exhibited T3 and T4, we discovered a significant difference in the use of person and relational
markers: I, you and our in leader messages from the US and PRC. Table 4 shows the use of
relational markers in sentences exhibiting T3 and T4.
Table 4. The use of relational markers in sentences exhibiting T3 and T4
33
Leader messages from the US exhibited a significantly higher use of I, you and our than those
from the PRC. Messages from US corporations place emphasis on the leader-stakeholder
relationship by highlighting the shared interests explicitly or inviting stakeholders into the
message by drawing on shared general knowledge through the use of inclusive third-person
pronouns: our (see Example [1]) (Hyland, 1998). Employing second-person pronouns in the
form of you can persuade stakeholders explicitly via involving them more closely since it
explicitly acknowledges their presence (see Examples 2 and 3) (Hyland, 1998). In addition,
messages from US corporations emphasise the importance of the leader’s role, responsibility
and authority and build credibility by employing more first-person pronouns (see Example [1])
(Hyland, 1998). Hyland (1998) further added that the overall