
stakeholders (Fairclough, 1992c; Li, 2009). Explicit types of intertextuality are indicative of
open communication which is of crucial importance for corporations in the PRC (Lines, 2003;
Yeo et al., 2011). However, messages in corporations from the US often have a tendency to
refer readers to additional information in the form of reports for their further reading and, as
such, often rely on implicit types of intertextuality.
31
Significant use of R2 was noted in leader messages from the PRC while R3 was often employed
in leader messages from the US. Leaders emphasise important issues of the corporation to
realise their communicative goals and intents, and these issues are intricately related to and
influenced by social, political, economic and ideological considerations rather than cultural
factors (AUTHOR, 2017). Leaders from corporations in the PRC seem to intricately tie their
corporate communicative goals and intent with national identity since they focus on
government policies by emphasising corporations’ expansion plans with the support of such
policies, while corporations in the US frame their corporate communication as socially
responsible by highlighting issues such as gender equality, diversity, workplace benefits and
sustainability. These findings add weight to the notion that in the professional corporate context,
intertextuality is often manifested ideologically in political and social issues. Direct speech
alongside government policies that accentuate the rising importance of the PRC as a nation and
corporations’ ambitious plans to expand their operations globally (Krauss & Bradsher, 2015)
add more authority to the leader’s voice in the PRC. By contrast, US corporations draw on
sources of intertextual references comprising a focus on social issues such as diversity and staff
inclusivity, and links with positive outcomes including financial performance and increased
productivity (AUTHOR, 2017; Salomon & Schork, 2003).
Apart from this, there was a higher use of intertextuality in move two in US leaders’ messages
because in these corporations, company core values, principles, mission, and vision are often
derived from other documents that emphasise ideals, rights and compliance to guide their
business and strengthen the corporate culture.
32
5.3 Variations in the use of metadiscourse in the linguistic manifestations of
intertextuality
Even though there was a high frequency of