ual manifestations in various domains and was adopted in
multiple intertextuality studies (e.g. Koskela, 2013). One drawback of his typology appears
with the inconsistency in the use of linguistic devices as descriptors to distinguish the different
categories of manifestations. For example, Type 4 did not clearly specify the linguistic form or
how comments or evaluations are presented. Therefore, a certain level of adaptation is needed
if his framework is to be applied for intertextual analysis, which was what we did in the current
study further elaborated in the Methodology section. The framework was modified for the
analysis of intertextuality in corporate leaders’ messages.
Furthermore, we argue that the specific manifestation of intertextuality in leader messages may
vary across cultures. Kristeva (1980; 1986) suggested that a text does not only refer to other
texts but to the cultural or social system in which the texts are embedded (see also Fairclough,
1992b; 1992c). Therefore, we argue that corporate leaders’ messages from two distinct cultural
contexts will also display cross-cultural differences in their manifested intertextuality. This
leads us to investigate the types of intertextuality manifested in leaders’ messages from the US
and PRC. The following research questions were derived accordingly:
RQ1a: What types of intertextuality were employed in the messages of corporate leaders from
Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC?
RQ1b: What were the differences between the types of intertextuality employed in the messages
of corporate leaders from Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC?
2.3 Sources of propositional content of appropriated materials
11
Prior studies have found evidence on how different genres drew on various resources to create
meaning. Such resources could be related to propositional content or subject matters in other
domains. For example, in Finnish business communication strategy texts, Koskela (2013)
observed that writers tended to make “references (type of source) to company strategy, values,
vision, mission, reputation, profile, culture and business goals” which presumably were derived
from the strategic management function of the corporation and highlighted the importance of
this referential system (p.397). Fairclough, in his analysis of Hacker et al.’s (1991) paper,
argued that news often drew on other domains of life including work, politics,