 leader messages to examine
intertextuality could act as a model for authentic instructional materials and activities in ESP
courses. It is true that the use of multiple texts and their intertextual relations may create
difficulties for students (Bremner & Costley, 2018). While it is true that certain aspects of the
corporate communication context cannot be easily replicated in classroom tasks, this should
not hinder lecturers from designing these tasks since they raise awareness of the complexity
involved in intertextuality. For example, in a corporate communication course on writing skills,
the importance of intertextuality and how it contributes to the effectiveness of corporate
communication should be emphasised and our findings here can illuminate this aspect of
intertextuality. In particular, the use of direct quotes and indirect ones can be used to signal
intertextuality as well as the types of information used (e.g. emphasis on social or governmental
policies, etc.). The communicative goals and intents of corporations which shape their identity
could also be explained so that students can see that intertextuality does not only involve text
manipulation but rather requires an understanding of the goals of corporate communication and
what different corporations view as important. Students will need to be given opportunities to
identify what readers/stakeholders know and will need to know further, and what kind of
information to incorporate from other texts to signal intertextuality, and how explicitly or
implicitly they should highlight the ideology/content to achieve the corporate communicative
goals. While awareness of the audience is necessary for constructing leader messages, Hyland
(2000) points out that an understanding of the appropriate metadiscourse knowledge such as
37
relational and person markers is crucial in producing messages that are contextualised, coherent
and reader-oriented, and the ways in which intertextuality is realised linguistically through
these markers is worth exploring further. More extensive research on the various ways in which
intertextuality is realised linguistically and the difficulties it poses for students is warranted.
As for corporate communication practitioners, they would be more cognizant of how
intertextuality is generally manifested in corporate messages from the US and PRC and this in
turn would help them to create more effective messages for leaders that conform to these
corporate communication practices to achieve their intended communicative purposes. Our
study paves the way to scrutinise intertextuality as exhibited in different industries and
professional