 entertainment,
religion, etc. (Fairclough, 1992b, pp. 202-204). In view of this, our study examined the sources
of reference employed in the manifestation of intertextuality in leader messages and whether
there were variations in the messages created by leaders from global corporations in the US
and PRC. Our study therefore addressed the following research question:
RQ2: What were the sources the writers of the messages drew on? What were the differences
between the use of intertextual references in the messages of leaders from Global 500
corporations in the US and PRC?
2.4 Intertextuality and move structure of leader messages
The manifestation of intertextuality is closely associated with the move structure in rhetorical
strategies in writing (Nickerson, 2000). Nickerson who found referential intertextuality in the
three-move structure of business faxes suggested that intertextual references “situate the genre-
text by (re) constructing the activities carried out to achieve institutional goals and the social
relations that have evolved to facilitate these” (2000, p.115). In her study, the move-specific
12
intertextuality was identified in business faxes. For example, intertextual references to
communicative events or actions were found in Move I while references to future events or
texts were exhibited in Move III (p.116).
In our study (AUTHOR, 2017) on move structure analysis in corporate leader messages, we
also noticed traces of intertextuality in the moves. Although the previous research did not focus
on move-specific intertextuality analysis, we postulate that referential intertextuality would be
manifested through certain moves in leaders’ messages because of the similar rhetorical and
strategic nature of intertextuality and the move structure.
To investigate and reveal move-specific intertextuality in leader messages, we intend to draw
on our previous study of move structure analysis of leader messages (AUTHOR, 2017), which
was adapted from Bhatia’s (2008) study on chairmen’s letters:
Move 1: Overview of past performance/looking back;
Move 2: Major values/mission and vision;
Move 3: Expression of gratitude to stakeholders;
Move 4: Major achievements and performance;
Move 5: Future plans, actions and promises;
Move 6: Looking ahead/concluding