 that of intertextuality (Kong, 2001; Koskela, 2013) since these
messages are written with a consideration of past and present messages, which leaders might
have used earlier. Therefore, the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality are worth
examining given that leader messages often refer to prior texts. The term ‘intertextuality’ was
first coined by Kristeva (1969) who noted that “every text is from the outset under the
jurisdiction of other discourses which impose a universe on it” (p.1). Intertextuality posits that
texts are closely linked with other texts, and is often exhibited in corporate documents through
references that are made to specific texts including regulations and emails (Bremner & Costley,
2018), while according to Devitt (1991, p.336), all texts interact because “no text is single, as
texts refer to one another, draw from one another, create the purpose for one another”.
This interaction of text, as a matter of fact, depends on cultural and social contexts as
highlighted in Scollon’s (2004) study. In other words, intertextuality varies across genres and
3
different discourse communities use it for different purposes. Therefore, this study will adopt
a cross-cultural comparative perspective by examining the similarities and differences between
corporate leader messages created by North American corporations and those produced by PRC
corporations.
The study is pedagogically motivated with an ultimate goal of identifying the ways that writers
draw on prior texts in constructing the corporate leader message, which has implications for
teaching novice writers of corporate communication and public relations (Bremner, 2014), and
in particular, raising their awareness of how prior texts are drawn on in such messages and the
possible cultural differences in the realisations of intertextuality. In fact, a very important
feature of professional literacy in ESP is competence in intertextuality (Bremner & Costley,
2018; O’Connor, 2002; Warren, 2016). A writer’s ability to draw on other texts for the intended
audience can improve communication in the corporate context and is therefore, an essential
feature of communicative competence in professional contexts (Cheng, 2009). To date, ESP
literature has examined how particular texts are formally linked with other texts in the
workplace (e.g