 communication contexts. Further research could also be undertaken on a cross-
comparison of a larger number of global corporations from a variety of countries.
To conclude, our study provides support for the finding that intertextuality is a prevalent feature
of all leader messages, particularly in terms of drawing on information related to corporate
information in move one: overview and looking back, and in exhibiting this information using
indirect speech and recognisable phrasing. However, cross-cultural variations are noted in that
the use of direct quotes is more frequent with more explicit intertextual references to
government policies in messages from corporations in the PRC, whereas the use of indirect
quotes in conjunction with an emphasis on intertextual social responsibility issues, and the use
of more first-person, second-person and third-person pronouns is more commonly observed in
messages from corporations in the US. This in turn suggests that corporate communicative
goals and identity feature prominently in intertextual linguistic choices and play a role in
engaging stakeholders.
38
References
Alessandri, S.W. (2001). Modeling corporate identity: A concept explication and theoretical
explanation. Corporate Communications: An International Journal, 6(4), 173-182.
AUTHOR. (2014).
AUTHOR. (2015).
AUTHOR. (2017).
Balmer, J.M.T. (1998). Corporate identity and the advent of corporate marketing. Journal of
Marketing Management,14 (8), 963-996.
Barron, C., Brunce, N., & Nunan, D. (2002). Knowledge and discourse: Towards an ecology
of language. Essex: Pearson Education.
Bazerman, C. (2004). Intertextuality: How texts rely on other texts. In C. Bazerman & P.
Prior (Eds.), What writing does and how it does it: An introduction to analyzing texts
and textual practices (pp. 83-96). London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates Publishers.
Bhatia, V.K. (2008). Towards Critical Genre Analysis. In: V.K. Bhatia, J. Flowerdew & R.H.
Jones (Eds.), Advances in Discourse Studies (pp.166-177). London & New York:
Routledge.
Bhatia, V.K. (2010). Interdiscurs