 persuasive effect of a text could
be increased if all types of pronouns mentioned are employed.
Examples:
(1) I am very proud of the work that AIA is doing together with our customers, our staff,
our agents and our partners. (US30)
(2) The Board oversees our responsible growth strategy to deliver long-term value for you,
our shareholders. (US09)
(3) Whether you’re an employee, a customer, a business partner or a shareholder, all Delta
stakeholders benefit from the decisions we make to drive the virtuous circle. (US24)
5.4 Differences in identity shaped through the variations in the use of intertextuality
As pointed out by Fairclough (1995, p.55), “text makes its own small contribution to shaping
social identities, social relations, and systems of knowledge and belief”, so corporate leader
34
messages with different types of intertextuality can be employed as a strategic means to
construct corporate identity (Alessandri, 2001; Balmer, 1998; Goodman & Hirsch, 2015). The
similar ways in which corporate identity is revealed through intertextual practices in
corporations in the US and PRC are that the types of intertextuality are mainly referential
(Devitt, 1991), and the source of reference is corporate information, both being indicative of a
professional and business-oriented corporate identity.
Striking variations are, nonetheless, observed in terms of the way corporate identity is framed
in corporations in the PRC compared to those in the US. Corporations in the PRC shape their
collective identity in line with Porter (1986) - frequent use of explicit, authoritative direct
quotes to establish legitimacy and persuade stakeholders that corporations are complying with
standards that expect them to be transparent and accountable (Lines, 2003; Yeo et al., 2011).
Quotations from an authority in terms of direct speech suggest a high degree of identification
between the reported voice and the author’s or leader’s voice, and could be used to justify
policies (Li, 2009). Also, an emphasis on government policies highlights the rising power of
the country and national identity of corporations while articulating a vision for the future is
indicative of strong ambition. On the other hand, corporations from the US construct a different
type of identity based on their communicative goals and uses