, illustrating that many
existing methods are special cases of the formulation: Section 4 is devoted to discussion of the experience
function and Section 5 focuses on the divergence function. Section 6 discusses an extended view of the
standard equation in dynamic environments. Section 7 focuses on the optimization algorithms for solving the
standard equation objective. Section 8 discusses the diverse types of target models. Section 9 discusses the
utility of the standardized formalism for mechanical design of panoramic learning approaches. Section 10
reviews related work. Section 11 concludes the article with discussion of future directions—in particular, we
discuss the broader aspects of ML not covered in the present work (e.g., more advanced learning such as
continual learning in complex evolving environments, theoretical analysis of learnability, generalization and
4
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
complexity, and automated algorithm composition) and how their unified characterization based on or inspired
by the current framework could potentially lead toward a full ‘Standard Model’ of ML and a turnkey approach
to panoramic learning with all types of experience.
2. Preliminaries: The Maximum Entropy View of Learning and
Inference
Depending on the nature of the task (e.g., classification or regression), data (e.g., labeled or unlabeled),
information scope (e.g., with or without latent variables), and form of domain knowledge (e.g., prior
distributions or parameter constraints), and so on, different learning paradigms with often complementary (but
not necessarily easy to combine) advantages have been developed for different needs. For example, the
paradigms built on the maximum likelihood principles, Bayesian theories, variational calculus, and Monte
Carlo simulation have led to much of the foundation underlying a wide spectrum of probabilistic graphical
models, exact/approximate inference algorithms, and even probabilistic logic programs suitable for
probabilistic inference and parameter estimations in multivariate, structured, and fully or partially observed
domains, while the paradigms built on convex optimization, duality theory, regularization, and risk
minimization have led to much of the foundation underlying algorithms such as support vector machine
(SVM), boosting, sparse learning, structure learning, and so on. Historically, there have been numerous efforts
in establishing a unified machine learning framework