 • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
divergence function can have a variety of choices, ranging from the family of f-divergence (e.g., KL
divergence), or Bregman divergence, to optimal transport distance (e.g., Wasserstein distance), and so on. We
discuss the divergence term in Section 5 in more detail.
Uncertainty function. The uncertainty function H(q) describes the uncertainty of the auxiliary distribution q
and thus controls the complexity of the learning system. It conforms with the maximum entropy principle
discussed in Section 2 that one should pick the most uncertain solution among those that fit all experience.
Like other components in SE, the uncertainty measure H(⋅) can take different forms, such as the popular
Shannon entropy, as well as other generalized ones such as Tsallis entropy. In this article, we assume Shannon
entropy by default.
For the discussion in the following sections, it is often convenient to consider a special case of the SE in
Equation 3.1. Specifically, we assume a common choice of the penalty U(ξ) = ∑ ξ, and, with a slight
k k
abuse of notations, f = ∑ f. In this case, the SE in Equation 3.1 can equivalently be written in an
k k
unconstrained form:
min −αH(q)+βD(q,p θ)−Eq [f],
(3.2)
q,θ
which can be easily seen by optimizing Equation 3.1 over ξ. In the special unconstrained form, the interplay
between the exogenous experience, divergence, and the endogenous uncertainty become more explicit.
Optimization: Teacher-student mechanism. The introduction of the auxiliary distribution q relaxes the
learning problem of p θ, originally only over θ, to be now alternating between q and θ. Here q acts as a
conduit between the exogenous experience and the target model: it on the one hand subsumes the experience
(by maximizing the expected f value), and on the other hand passes it incrementally to the target model (by
minimizing the divergence D). The following fixed point iteration between q and θ illustrates this
optimization strategy under the SE. Let us plug into Equ