model needs to learn the concept of ‘sentiment’ to be able to modify the attribute of text. As mentioned in
Section 4.4, a natural form of experience that has encoded the concept is a pretrained sentiment classifier (SC).
The first experience function can then be defined as f (x,a,y) = SC(a,y), which evaluates the log
sc
likelihood of the transferred sentence y possessing the sentiment a. The higher value the y achieves, the
higher quality it is considered in light of the experience. The second desideratum requires the model to
reconstruct as much of the input text x as possible. We combine the second experience f (x,a,y∣D)
data
(Equation 4.2) defined by a set of simple reconstruction data instances D = {(x∗,a∗ = a x∗,y∗ = x∗)},
where the target sentiment a∗ is set to the sentiment of the original sentence x∗, and by the problem definition
the ground-truth output y∗ is exact the same as the input x∗. Such data thus carry the information of
preserving the input content. Finally, for the requirement of generating fluent text, we can again naturally use
an auxiliary model as the experience, namely, a pretrained language model (LM) f (x,a,y) = LM(y)
LM
that estimates the log likelihood of a sentence y under the natural language distribution. After identifying the
45
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
experience (f,f,f ), we then combine them together with Equation 9.1 and plug into the SE to train
sc data LM
the target model p (y∣x,a). More experimental details can be found in (Hu et al., 2017; Yang et al., 2018).
θ
Table 2 shows the empirical results on the common Yelp corpus of customer reviews. We can see that by
plugging in the relevant experience, the resulting model successfully learns the respective aspects of the task.
For example, with only f, the model is able to transfer the sentiment attribute but fails on content
sc
preservation and fluency. Adding the second experience f encourages preservation. Further with f, the
data LM
model substantially improves the