 forms of the target model,
meaning that the target model can take an arbitrary form as desired by the problem at hand (e.g., classification,
regression, generation, control) and can be of arbitrary types ranging from deep neural networks of arbitrary
architectures, prompts for pretrained models, symbolic systems (e.g., knowledge graph), probabilistic graphical
models of arbitrary dependence structures, and so on. We discuss more details of the different choices of the
target model in Section 8.
Let q(t) be an auxiliary distribution. The SE is written as:
min −αH(q)+βD(q,p θ)+U(ξ)
q,θ,ξ
(3.1)
s.t. −Eq [f
k(θ)
]
≤ξ k, k =1,…,K.
The SE contains three major terms that constitute a learning formalism: the uncertainty function H(⋅) that
controls the compactness of the output model (e.g., as measured by the amount of allowed randomness while
trying to fit experience); the divergence function D(⋅,⋅) that measures the distance between the target model
to be trained and the auxiliary model that facilitates a teacher–student mechanism as shown below; and the
experience function, which is introduced by a penalty term U(ξ) that draws in the set of ‘experience
13
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
(θ)
functions’ f that represent external experience of various kinds for training the target model. The
k
hyperparameters α,β ≥ 0 enable trade-offs between these components.
Figure 1. An illustration of the standard equation (SE) as a general formulation of the
objective function, used to learn an arbitrary target model p with any forms of experience. All
θ
different forms of experience are formulated uniformly as an experience function f. The SE
contains three terms, including the experience function for incorporating the exogenous
information, the divergence function for improving the fitness of the target model by matching
with the auxiliary ‘teacher’ model q, and the uncertainty function for controlling the complexity
of the learning system.
Experience function. Perhaps the most powerful in terms