,y;DC)E 1 ϵ Knowledge
model
Distillation
(Hinton et al.,
2015)
17
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
binary classifier JSD 0 1 Vanilla GAN
(Goodfellow et al.,
2014)
Variational
discriminator f-divergence 0 1 f-GAN (Nowozin
et al., 2016)
1-Lipschitz W distance 0 1 WGAN (Arjovsky
1
discriminator et al., 2017)
1-Lipschitz KL 0 1 PPO-GAN (Wu et
discriminator al., 2020)
Online f τ(t) CE ρ > 0 ρ > 0 Multiplicative
Weights (Freund &
Schapire, 1997)
4. Experience Function
The experience function f(t) in the standard equation can be instantiated to encode vastly distinct types of
experience. Different choices of f(t) result in learning algorithms applied to different problems. With
particular choices, the standard equation rediscovers a wide array of well-known algorithms. The resulting
common treatment of the previously disparate algorithms is appealing as it offers new holistic insights into the
commonalities and differences of those algorithms. Table 1 shows examples of extant algorithms that are
recovered by the standard equation.
4.1. Data Instance Experience
We first consider the most common type of experience, namely, data instances, which are assumed to be
independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.). Such data instance experience can appear in a wide range of
contexts, including supervised, self-supervised, unsupervised, actively supervised, and other scenarios with
data augmentation and manipulation. Figure 2 illustrates the experience functions based on the data instances.
18
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
Figure 2. Illustration of the data instance experience: (a) The general view of the data
instance experience function. An observed data set 𝒟 = {t* } (assuming three data instances
in the figure) is given. For a configuration t ∈ 𝒯, its experience function value f(t) depends on
*
its similarity with the observed data instances t. Each observed data instance