 compared to the previous practice of designing bespoke algorithm for
each individual problem. Sections 4 and 6 have discussed possible formulations of the diverse types of
experience as an experience function to be plugged into Equation 9.1. It is still an open question how even
more types of experience, such as massive knowledge graphs (Bach et al., 2019; Tan et al., 2020), can
efficiently be formulated as an experience function that assesses the ‘goodness’ of an input t. On the other
hand, the discussion in the next subsection offers new opportunities that relieve users from having to manually
43
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
specify every detail of the experience function. Instead, users only need to specify parts of the experience
function of which they are certain, and leave the remaining parts plus the weights λ (Equation 9.1) to be
i
automatically learned together with the target model.
Table 2. Results of text attribute transfer on the Yelp data (Hu et al., 2017; Yang et al.,
2018). Top: Generated samples of different methods given the Original sentence, for
negative-to-positive and positive-to-negative transfer, respectively. Positive and negative
words are highlighted in bold. Bottom: Performance of different methods. For the evaluation
metrics: “attribute accuracy” is evaluated with a pretrained sentiment classifier on the model
generations; “preservation” is the BLEU score (∈ [0,100]) that evaluates the lexical
overlapping between the generated sentences and the original input sentences; “fluency” is
the perplexity score of generated text evaluated by a pretrained language model (LM) (the
lower, the better). The model trained with all three types of experience achieves the best
overall performance in terms of all the three aspects.
Method Negative to Positive
Original it was super dry and had a weird taste to the entire slice.
(Shen et al., 2017) it was super friendly and had a nice touch to the same.
f sc good good good
f sc +f data it was super well-made and had a weird taste to the entire
slice.
f sc +f data +f LM it was super fresh and had a delicious taste to the entire
slice.
Method Positive to