known algorithms in existing learning paradigms.
6.1. Dynamic Experience
The experience can change over time for different reasons. For example, the experience can involve
optimization, often together with the target model, resulting in a bi-level optimization scheme (Section 6.1.1);
or alternatively, the experience may just come from the environment sequentially with an unknown dynamic
(Section 6.1.2).
6.1.1. Variational Experience With Optimization
As a concrete example, consider the experiences that do not have an analytic form, but instead are defined in a
variational way (i.e., as a solution to an optimization problem):
31
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
f τ :=argmax f J(f,p θ(τ−1)), (6.2)
with an optimization objective J, where p is the target model learned with the experience from the last
θ(τ−1)
iteration.
A particular example is the adversarial experience emergingly used in many generation and representation
learning problems. Specifically, recall the data instance experience f (t;D) that measures the closeness
data
between a configuration t with the true data D based on data instance matching (Equation 4.2). Such manually
defined measures could be subjective, suboptimal, or demanding expertise or heavy engineering to be properly
specified. An alternative way that sidesteps the drawbacks is to automatically induce a closeness measure
f ϕ(t), where ϕ denotes any free parameters associated with the experience and is to be learned. For example,
one can measure the closeness of a configuration t to the data set D based on a discriminator (or critic) that
evaluates how easily t can be differentiated from the instances in D. A concrete application is in image
generation, where a binary discriminator takes as input an image sample and tells whether the input image is a
real instance from the observed image corpus D or a fake one produced by the model. The similar idea of
discriminator-based closeness measure was also explored in the likelihood-free inference literature (Gutmann
et al., 2018).
The discriminator/critic as the experience can be learned or adapted together with the target model training in
an iterative way, as in Equation 6.2. We