attimet+1iftheagent
were to take action a [79]. Iterative applications of One factor towards improving the reliability and
the world model can thus be used to simulate agent scope of embodied AI research in the future will be
trajectories and, thus, for model-based planning. As the continued improvement of simulation capabili-
may be expected, building and training world mod- tiesandrealism,andincreaseinthescaleandquality
elsmadechallengingbyseveralfactors: (1)generally of 3D assets used in simulation. Repeatable, quanti-
full state information (s ) is not available as agent’s tative analysis of embodied AI systems at scale has
t
have access only to partial, egocentric, observations, been made possible through the use of simulation.
(2) the dynamics of an environment are frequently As research in embodied AI continues to grow and
stochastic and thus cannot be predicted deterministi- tackleincreasinglycomplexproblemswithinincreas-
20
inglycomplexscenes,theneedsplacedonsimulation heavily utilized by embodied AI researchers in the
environmentsandassetswillincrease. pastyears[25,29,43,54,123,182,211]. Althoughin-
One important area of improvement for simula- creased scale and quality has been the general trend
tion environments is physics realism during agent- for these datasets, it still remains extremely costly to
object interaction. Past simulation environments makethemuseableforinteractivetasks. Forexample,
have solidly supported both abstracted [99, 144] and most of the objects in these datasets do not support
rigid-body physics-based agent interactions [56, 65, interaction,suchastheabilitytoopencabinets. Such
175, 186]. There has been quite some progress in worknotonlyrequiresmodifyingmeshes,butalsore-
physics simulation of flexible material (rope, cloth, quiresatremendousamountofannotationtoprovide
softbody)[106,170],fluids[60],andcontact-richinter- part-levelandarticulationannotation,aswasdonein
action(e.g.nut-and-bot)[129],leveragingstate-of-the- the PartNet and PartNet-Mobility datasets [123, 211].
art physics engines like PyBul