 warehouses, it still remains Theagentshallavoidcollisionsorproximitytopedes-
a challenging research question in dynamic environ- trians beyond a threshold (distance <0.3 meter) to
ments like homes and offices. In 2020 and 2021, the avoid episode termination. It should also maintain a
Stanford Vision and Learning Lab in collaboration comfortabledistancetopedestrians(distance<0.5me-
with Robotics@Google hosted challenges on Interac- ter),beyondwhichthescoreispenalizedbutepisodes
tive and Social (Dynamic) Navigation2. These chal- are not terminated. Social Navigation Score (SNS),
lengesusedthesimulationenvironmentiGibson[105, which is the average of STL (Success weighted by
175]withanumberofrealisticindoorscenes,asillus- Time Length) and PSC (Personal Space Compliance),
trated in Fig. 4. The 2020 Challenge3 also featured a isusedtoevaluateperformanceoftheagent.
Sim2Real component where the participants trained
The agent takes in the current RGB-D images, the
their policies in the iGibson simulation environment
targetcoordinatesinitslocalframe,andcurrentveloc-
anddeployedintherealworld.
ities as observations, and outputs a continuous twist
command(desiredlinearandangularvelocities)asac-
tions. Thedatasetincludeseighttrainingscenes,two
validation scenes and five testing scenes. All scenes
arefullyinteractive.
In the 2020edition we saw4 submissions while in
the subsequent 2021 edition we had 6 submissions.
The current state-of-the-art learning based methods
achievedsomelevelofsuccessforInteractiveandSo-
cial Navigation tasks (around 0.5 INS and 0.45 SNS),
but they are still far from being solved. In both com-
(a)InteractiveNavigation (b)SocialNavigation
petitions participants improved over navigation suc-
Figure 4. Interactive Navigation (left) requires the agent to cess rate while keeping environment disturbance rel-
push aside small obstacles (e.g. shoes, boxes) whereas So- atively constant. The common failure cases include
cialNavigation(right)requirestheagenttonavigateamong
the agent being too conservative and not being able
ped