isingfuturedirectionsinthefield. andreacttoaudioinputanywhereinascene.),act(i.e.
navigatetheirenvironmentandinteractwithittoac-
2.WhatisEmbodiedAI? complishgoals),andreason(i.e.considerthelong-term
consequences of their actions). Embodied AI focuses
Embodied AI studies artificial systems that express
on tasks which break the clean input/output formal-
intelligent behavior through bodies interacting with
ism of passive tasks such as object classification and
theirenvironments. Thefirstgenerationofembodied
speech understanding, and require agents to interact
AIresearchersfocusedonroboticembodiments[142],
with - and sometimes even modify - their environ-
arguing that robots need to interact with their noisy
ments over time (Fig. 2). Furthermore, embodied AI
environments with a rich set of sensors and effec-
environmentsgenerallyviolatethecleandynamicsof
tors, creating high-bandwidth interaction that breaks
structuredenvironmentssuchasgamesandassembly
the fundamental assumptions of clean inputs, clean
lines, and require agents to cope with noisy sensors,
outputs, and static world states required by classical
effectors, dynamics, and other agents, which creates
AI approaches [206]. More recent embodied AI re-
unpredictableoutcomes.
searchhasbeenempoweredbyrichsimulationframe-
works,oftenderivedfromscansofrealbuildingsand
models of real robots, to recreate environments more Why is Embodiment Important? Embodied AI can
closely resembling the real world than those previ- be viewed as a reaction against extreme forms of
ously available. These environments have enabled the mind-body duality in philosophy, which some per-
both discoveries about the properties of intelligence ceive to view intelligence as a purely mental phe-
[135] and systems which show excellent sim-to-real nomenon.Themind-bodyproblemhasfacedphiloso-
2
Input Predictions
Environment + Goal (Interactive) Action Trajectory
TV PFuosuhn!d!
Rotate Move
Right Ahead
“C“Floinsde tthhee TdVra”wer”
Figure2. PassiveAItasksarebasedonpredictionsoverind