objectis
locatedinspacebasedonitscategoryinformation.
We believe studying audio-visual embodied AI is The setup for SCD is similar to that shown for the
of vital importance for building truly autonomous RVSUSemanticSLAMchallengedescribedpreviously
robots with rich perception modalities in the real but with some differences in challenge setup within
world. BenchBot. The SCD challenge also uses the BEAR
dataset [83] which already has multiple variants of
3.2.RearrangementChallenges
a set of base scenes. Variants differ in some objects
This section discusses rearrangement challenges. areaddedandsomeremoved(asdesiredfortheSCD
RearrangementisdescribedasacanonicaltaskinEm- task), and also there are some lighting variations to
bodied AI that may lead to learning representations increase challenge difficulty. BenchBot enables the
that are for many downstream tasks [16]. Here, the switching between environment variants within one
agentsgoalistomoveordetectthechangesfromone SCDsubmissionassoonastherobotagentdetermines
stateofthescenetoanother.Forexamples,severalob- itisfinishedwithitsfirsttraversal. BenchBotsupplies
jects, such as an apple and a banana may move, and the same robot control that progresses from passive
the agent is tasked with detecting that they moved toactivecontrolviadiscreteactionsandwhereineach
andputtingthembacktotheircorrectlocations. actionisfollowedbyanobservationcontainingRGB-
D images, laser scan, and either ground-truth or es-
timated robot pose data. The SCD challenge utilises
a variant of the OMQ evaluation measure [82] which
3.2.1 SceneChangeDetection
evaluates the final 3D object cuboid map output as
part of the challenge. This variant introduces the ne-
The RVSU scene change detection (SCD) challenge,
cessityforthemaptoprovideanestimateforthelike-
an extension to the RVSU semantic SLAM challenge,
lihoodthatanobjecthasbeenaddedorremovedfrom
requires identification and mapping of objects which
thescenebetweentraversals. Thisstateestimationfor
have been added and removed between two traver-
theobjectisthencombined