 Artificialintelligenceiswrittenintothenameofem-
the properties needed for individual embodied tasks bodiedAI,butthefieldofembodiedAIwascreatedto
[135]. addresstheperceivedlimitationsofclassicalartificial
intelligence [142], and much of artificial intelligence
is focused on problems like causal reasoning or au-
What is not Embodied AI? Embodied AI overlaps
tomated programming which are hard enough with-
with many other fields, including robotics, computer
out introducing the messiness of real embodiments.
vision, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and
More recently, techniques from more traditional arti-
simulation. However, there are differences in focus
ficial intelligence domains like natural language un-
which make embodied AI a research area in its own
derstandinghavebeenappliedtoembodiedproblems
right.
withgreatsuccess[4].
All robotic systems are embodied; however, not all
Simulation and embodied AI are intimately inter-
embodied systems are robots (e.g., AR glasses), and
twined; while simulations of real-world systems go
robotics requires a great deal of work beyond purely
farbeyondthetopicsofrobotics,andthefirstgenera-
tryingtomakesystemsintelligent. EmbodiedAIalso
tionofembodiedAIfocusedonroboticembodiments
includes work that focuses on exploring the proper-
[142], muchofmodernembodiedAIresearchhasex-
tiesofintelligenceinrealisticenvironmentswhileab-
panded to simulated benchmarks, emulating or even
stractingsomeofthedetailsoflow-levelcontrol. For
scannedfromrealenvironments,whichprovidechal-
example, the ALFRED [177] benchmark uses simula-
lenging problems for traditional AI approaches, with
tion to abstract away low-level robotic manipulation
or without physical embodiments. Despite not start-
(e.g. moving a gripper to grasp an object) to focus on
ing with robots, systems that have resulted from this
high-level task planning. Here, the agent is tasked
work have nevertheless found success in real-world
withcompletinganaturallanguageinstruction, such
environments [188, 220], providing hope that simu-
as rinse the egg to put it in the microwave, and it can