 a given world. Still, it proves challenging
Eachoftheseproblemsischallengingandhasbeeninves- when specified with real, crowd-sourced natural language.
tigatedbyexistingresearch.Commonly,apipelineapproach In short, our contributions are:
is used, where each problem is addressed sequentially, and • A language embedding rich enough to specify a se-
the outputs of one are fed to the next. In the example above, quence of actions to achieve a task-level goal.
the semantic understanding that the goal is on(yellow, red) • A DREAMCELL architecture to predict future world
from natural language is passed to a high level controller. states from language and raw sensor observations.
To simplify high level control prediction, robot perception • An approach to convert a task plan output from these
is often augmented with visual semantics information, such DREAMCELLS into low-level executions.
as oracle object detections, bounding boxes, or 6d poses [1],
[2]. In this work, we instead train a single model end-to-end II. RELATEDWORK
that takes natural language and raw pixels, depths, and joint
Ourworkdrawsinspirationfromrecenteffortsonlearning
states to produce low-level controls to accomplish a goal.
abstract representations for planning [4]. We build primarily
Additionally,ratherthantreatthepipelineproblemsabove
on work in planning and natural language processing, with
independently, we introduce a prospection component to an
important future work in manipulation.
agent’s training and inference, which facilitates “dreaming”
Communicating control and goals has traditionally been
about the consequences of chosen high level actions in the
accomplished by specifying high level operations [5], [1],
current scene. Prospection is the ability to reason about the
[6], via formal languages like the Problem Domain De-
consequences of future actions without executing them [3].
scription Language (PDDL) [7] or as a Hierarchical Task
Our approach allows the agent to predict whether its high
Network [8]. Such systems provide a straightforward way to
level actions will lead to undesirable world states.
compose black-box operations to solve problems. While we
maintain an interpretable intermediate layer, our interface is
1NVIDIA,USA
natural