Prospection: Interpretable Plans From Language By Predicting the Future
Chris Paxton1, Yonatan Bisk2, Jesse Thomason2, Arunkumar Byravan2, Dieter Fox1,2
Abstract—High-levelhumaninstructionsoftencorrespondto Goal( ): World( ):
behaviors with multiple implicit steps. In order for robots to take the yellow object from
be useful in the real world, they must be able to to reason
the table and place it on
over both motions and intermediate goals implied by human
top of the red object
instructions.Inthiswork,weproposeaframeworkforlearning
representationsthatconvertfromanatural-languagecommand Next Prediction Interpretable Predicted Futures
to a sequence of intermediate goals for execution on a robot.
A key feature of this framework is prospection, training an
agent not just to correctly execute the prescribed command,
but to predict a horizon of consequences of an action before
taking it. We demonstrate the fidelity of plans generated by
our framework when interpreting real, crowd-sourced natural
subgoal grasp(yellow) move(yellow,red) release (yellow)
language commands for a robot in simulated scenes.
I. INTRODUCTION action
Arobotagentexecutingnaturallanguagecommandsmust
solve a series of problems. First, human language must be
translated to an understanding of intent. For example, the control
command pick up the yellow block and place it on top of
the red block corresponds to an intended change in world Fig. 1: DREAMCELLS convert instructions to interpretable
state that results in a yellow block on top of a red one. subgoals which can be visualized (Wˆ) and executed (θ).
Given that understanding, an agent must plan a sequence of
actions it can take to reach the target world state. In the
above example, this could be (move(yellow); grasp(yellow); We consider a simple pick-and-place task, where the goal
move(yellow, red); release(yellow)). Finally, these high level is to stack one block on top of another (Figure 1). This is
controlshavetobeexecutedintheworldbyservoinganarm limited in that there are only a few high-level actions the
to appropriate positions and controlling the gripper. robot can take in