 information and
view or borrow a small set of chosen publications. knowledge for practical purposes to better themselves,
The media visionary Marshall McLuhan ob- and this implies a far different manner of use of its
served that the first use of new technology is imitation content.
of the old. History is so replete with examples of this The reality is that most references humans make
phenomenon that no one seems to have asked whether to textual materials are not the result of large-scale
it is simply an observed human reaction or a funda- reading or assimilation, as one might observe in col-
mental necessity. It appears to be fundamental. When lege students reading assigned textbooks, but are in
a new technology becomes available, it cannot dis- the form of directed lookup, that is, the result of
place the old unless it is able to replicate every one of search. When one has a question, one needs the an-
the old functions. Otherwise, it will not be adopted. swer, and often does not have sufficient time to read
This creates a low threshold for acceptance. All the entire works to obtain it. The farmer who needs to rid
new technology must do is to duplicate the old, pos- his field of a specific pest is not interested in the his-
sibly faster, cheaper or with enhanced performance, tory of agriculture, nor even of prescriptions for kill-
and it is likely to be embraced. There is no economic ing the multitude of insect species that have plagued
imperative to have it do more than that. farmers for centuries. He wants to know what to do
Translating McLuhan's maxim into the digital today to solve his problem, and that is a search ques-
library context, we can expect that the first large tion.
digital libraries will simply replicate traditional ones. If the answer is contained in one paragraph of
That is, they will accumulate carefully selected works, one book written in a foreign language, the farmer is
index them, and deliver them, or allow them to be not interested in paying for a full translation of the
viewed, under controlled conditions to authorized foreign book into his own language so he can read the
patrons. The indexing will be excellent and the de- relevant paragraph. He just wants the answer. Un-
livery remarkably rapid, but nothing reallynew will fortunately, the copyright system does not provide an
happen. While this is