 to
vastly restrict the spread and utility of the vast ma- The foregoing sections have been a lengthy
jority of works. Even if the publisher has no interest in prelude to my central proposal, which is that since
publishing a Polish translation of a French work, a copyright poses so many obstacles to the goals of the
Polish citizen cannot do so without permission 1, and UDL, and we cannot ignore copyright, the only al-
thus for the entire term of copyright the work will ternative is to circumvent it.
remain inaccessible to Poles. Various proposals have been made to modify the
The ability to have works translated is essential to copyright statutes in various ways to promote assis-
the goals of the UDL. Unfortunately, the UCC only tance to developing nations, such as expanding the
permits compulsory licenses--it does not mandate scope of compulsory licenses, relating license fees to
them, and relatively few nations have enacted a com- a nation's per capita income, providing tax benefits to
pulsory license for translation. As a general principle, donors who dedicate their copyrights to the public
where intellectual property treaties specifically allow domain, implementing micropayment schemes to
wealthy nations to grant benefits to poor nations, they provide compensation for partial use of a work, and
decline to do so, and the effect is a continual widening the like. Such proposals, even if they found favour,
of the gap between the industrial and the developing which they do not, would take a very long time to
world. It is this deliberately maintained inequality I enact because of the fierce debate that accompanies
propose to correct later in this paper. any modification to the economic effect of copyright.
TRIPS Article 9.2 reads, "Copyright protection While the public lending right is gaining favour
shall extend to expressions and not to ideas, proce- around the world, it only benefits citizens of the en-
dures, methods of operation or mathematical concepts acting country, and only applies to publicly-available
as such". Article 10 provides that "Compilations of physical copies of works.
data or other material, whether in machine readable or I propose instead that we at the UDL operate
other form, which by reason of the selection or ar- completely within the existing statutes and interna-
rangement of their contents constitute intellectual tional agreements and make full use of the exemption
creations shall be protected as such." It