 their
exist beforehand. sources, check for inconsistencies and consensus, and
The reason indexes are easy to make automati- prepare a critical article of the required length.
cally is that they are almost purely syntactic. No se- Using digital collections as fodder for synthetic
mantic understanding of the text being indexed is document generators is not a new idea (Wactlar,
needed to create the index. There are some interesting 1996). However, it does not appear to have been
syntactic challenges, such as recognizing whole recognized previously that synthetic documents, if
phrases and idioms, and determining whether a word they are created without copying original expression,
that occurs at the beginning of a sentence should are free of copyright restrictions. Not only can they be
remain capitalized in the index, but highly useful freely distributed, but they can be translated into an
indexes can be produced even ignoring such issues. arbitrary number of languages.
Google is perhaps the extreme example of how useful Great strides have been made recently in auto-
an index can be. mated translation (Kanellos, 2005). While translation
Abstracts and summaries are more advanced of unrestricted, pre-existing text remains difficult,
forms of synthetic documents since they require nearly perfect machine translations can be made in
processing at the sentence, rather than the word, level. restricted domains if controls can be placed on the
Detection of topic sentences and elimination of re- text to be translated at the time it is originally gener-
dundant content are required. ated (Carbonell, 2000). The reason is that ambiguities
At the next level up is synthesis from multiple in syntax and vocabulary can be resolved at genera-
documents, in which a program ingests different texts tion time to yield fully translatable text. Therefore, an
and processes them to generate summaries. Google automated translation system, working in cooperation
News is an excellent example. It scours online with a document synthesizer, would be able to pro-
newspaper feeds and produces essentially a front page duce accurate output in multiple languages without
containing brief headlines, along with links to the the need for human editing.
source publications. It was described at a very general All of the above systems, from indexing soft-
level in the Web publication "Digital Inspiration" on ware to full treatise generators and automated trans-
May 31, 2005: "Google News