 undoubtedly a desirable de- efficient mechanism to allow him to pay the propor-
velopment, I seriously question the degree to which it tional value of the text he wants to read in comparison
will benefit mankind. with the price of the whole work. Under the present
The reason is that mere access to books does not mechanism, he must locate the book, which is cur-
solve societal problems. The lifetime reading capacity rently not easy unless it has been digitized, then either
of a human being is about 3 000 books. This assumes buy or borrow the book and commission of translation
reading one book per week for 60 years. A very dili- of the portion he desires. It is illegal for his library to
gent reader might push the number to 10 000 books in make a digital copy of the paragraph available to him
a lifetime, which is still only 1/100 of one percent of without permission of the copyright owner, and the
what has been published. And how much can the cost of even asking for such permission will often
reader actually assimilate from all this reading that exceed the price of the work.
will train him for a new job, improve his crop yields That method might succeed if copies of books
or teach him mathematics? were always readily and cheaply available. The UDL
It is important here to distinguish reading for can eventually scan all public domain 1 works to solve
part of the problem. Without the need to restrict dis-
tribution or account for royalties, every literary work
"Public domain" is an often misunderstood term that means "free of on Earth or any portion of any such work will be free
copyright and available for any otherwise legal use without charge." It
to us all. This is a major advance.
does not simply mean "accessible to the public".
Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187 1181
However, because of the gradual lengthening of to the use of their works irl such a manner. A secon-
copyright terms around the world, particularly in the dary problem is that the OPIC proposal does not ad-
United States, which has extended the term consid- dress uses of the work other than manufacture and
erably beyond what is required by international con- distribution of whole copies.
ventions, by far the majority of works so far published
on Earth are still in copyright. To estimate the