The situation will change radically when an to a common fund, the proceeds of which are dis-
electronic book (eBook) artifact is available that tributed to copyright owners on a pro rata basis de-
mimics the properties of a paperback book, namely pending on how often each book is checked out of
the ability to flip and bend pages, mark one's place, public libraries. The success of the scheme depends,
write notes in the margins and put it in a convenient of course, on the amount allocated. It might be de
pocket. Of course, this device will be able to store minimis, or it might constitute a windfall.
10 000 books (by our count, requiring less than a Regardless, the measurement is based on
Terabyte)--a lifetime supply for our diligent reader. checking out entire books and is unable to measure
Alas, McLuhan tells us that the first of these will do partial uses, such as repeated reading of a single
little more than pretend they are traditional books--at critical paragraph or section. However, the public
least until they win acceptance. lending right is increasing in popularity around the
Once the true eBook exists, the publishing in- world, as it deserves to be, since it corrects a basic
dustry will fight precisely the same battle now being inequity.
waged by music and movie companies: it will be The digital analog of a public lending right is
impossible to put the e-genie back in the bottle and difficult to formulate, since it, too, suffers from an
piracy will run rampant in this domain as well. In the inability to measure, or provide compensation for,
Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SC! 2005 6A(I I): I179-1187 1183
partial uses. A critical assumption underlying the PLR Of course the difficulty with any compulsory
is that the publisher benefits from revenue for each licensing scheme is collecting revenue and managing
copy of the work that is placed in a library, and that payments. If governments were to contribute sub-
each copy can only be lent out to one person at a time. stantial amounts of money to a common fund to pay
Therefore, if the demand for a book increases, more copyright owners for the use of their works, the
libraries will have to buy it, and the publisher will problem would be far simpler. Few, if any, govern-
benefit directly.