 be presented in a form that
international agreement, there is no office or database the human senses can perceive. For books and videos,
to which one might refer that gives the copyright this means that the content must be visible. For music,
status of a work. One reason is that the ownership of it must be audible. Therefore, at the point that the
copyright may have been transferred to another party. digital material is transformed into analog form for
While such transfers must be in writing, there is no presentation to the human, it can be captured. It
requirement that the Copyright Office, the repository cannot be protected from capture because the brain
of copyright records, need be informed of the transfer. does not have a direct digital interface. The unen-
There is thus no place one may look for a definitive crypted signals must go through the air so the content
determination of ownership, so a digitizer who wants can be acquired by the human. This is the reason that
to seek permission is frustrated form doing so. DRM is doomed to failure. Nevertheless, it will surely
Suppose one learns that a work is still in copy- present barriers to the use of digital materials.
right, but copyright owner no longer exists or cannot
be located. Is it legal to copy the work, or is it simply
taking a risk that is unlikely to produce adverse con- COMPULSORY LICENSING
sequences?
Different solutions to the copyright problem
have been proposed. Some are promising only within
PIRACY McLuhan's inhibitory prescription, that is, so long as
the lending library model dominates. The United
The book world has remained remarkably un- Kingdom has implemented a "public lending right",
scathed by the sort of digital piracy that has plagued (PLR) which recognizes the fundamental unfairness
the movie and record industries. There is no Napster of purchasing one copy of a book, placing it in a
for books. I believe that the reason is not a low level public library, and having large numbers of people
of interest in reading, but the fact that it is still painful benefit from it through borrowing without any addi-
to read from computer terminals while it is not at all tional payment to the copyright owner. The owner is
difficult to watch DVDs or listen to music on digital compensated only once, at the initial purchase of the
devices. book. The UK Parliament each year allocates money
