 of copies made and the duration of the one-year subscription price for 2005 was U.S.
work. However, no ancillary rights are included in the $23 483, as reported on the company's website.
compulsory license, such as the right to make deriva- Few would begrudge a publisher the opportunity
tive works like translations. Again, it is difficult to see to make a profit, and although the number of sub-
what the digital equivalent of such a license would scribers to Brain Research is undoubtedly low, the
encompass since there is no useful digital analog of economics of academic journal publishing set it apart
"copy". in that the authors, reviewers and editors receive no
The Japanese compulsory license is much more compensation for their work---only the publisher gets
extensive, but also more cumbersome. A far larger paid--and the original purpose for which the work
category of works is subject to compulsory licensing, was created, which is to achieve widespread dis-
but the royalty is determined by an adjudicatory body semination rather than earn money, is thwarted, and
rather than statute, which introduces delay and un- even choked off, by the fee structure.
certainty in the process. There was a time when scholars were completely
dependent on print publishers to distribute their work,
and many researchers remember a day when they
The royalty in the U.S. for each copy as of January 1, 2006 will be
1.75 cents per minute with a minimum payment of 9 cents per song. would await anxiously the arrival in the post of the
1184 Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187
next issue of a journal in their field. Print publication were copyrightable, then the owner might extract a
to achieve dissemination is no longer required, or royalty from anyone who published such an instruc-
even efficient. What costs $23 483 to buy on paper tion until the expiration of copyright, in effect grant-
costs $0 to produce on the Internet, since everyone ing the protection afforded by a patent, but for a much
connected with the creation of a paper works for free. longer period of time. Since this is undesirable, the
Publishers now typically require camera-ready copy idea and expression are said to merge into the idea
of papers, or at least an electronic format, so even the alone, and