only one possible expression. In such cases, the idea rently has 169 members. The Paris Convention itself
wins out over expression and the expression becomes does not address copyright, but the Berne Convention,
uncopyrightable according to the doctrine of administered by WIPO and having 156 signatories,
"idea/expression merger". To hold otherwise would does so. The WIPO Copyright Treaty (WCT), which
allow the discoverer of a fact to obtain a monopoly modifies the Berne Convention, has 56 members. The
over it for the full term of copyright. For example, UCC has been adopted by 64 nations. TRIPS is an
suppose someone discovered that "eating peaches agreement between WIPO and the World Trade Or-
cures cancer" and published a pamphlet containing ganization (WTO), which has 148 members. China,
that phrase. All ways of expressing that discovery are India and the U.S. are signatories to all of these
essentially equivalent. In the parlance of copyright agreements except that China and India have not
law, they are "substantially similar". If the phrase ratified the WCT.
The Berne Convention specifically allows na-
tions to impose compulsory licenses on certain types
17 U.S.C. w (b). of works (e.g., musical works), forbids such licenses
2 Exceptions are recognized when acts committed in one country result
on others (e.g. cinema) and is silent on other works
in infringement in another country.
Shamos /J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187 1185
such as literary works, including books and computer such". Even though China and India are not signato-
programs (where they are copyrightable). ries to the WCT, TRIPS contains an equivalent pro-
The UCC does not address copyright in ideas, vision. As we shall see, these treaty provisions fur-
but contains several clauses intended to promote nish a legal pathway to universal benefit from the
compulsory licensing. For example, Article V allows UDL.
signatory countries to grant a compulsory license to
make translations. This is a very important license
since without it no one has an independent right to
translate a work. The practical effect of keeping the RESPONSE TO COPYRIGHT
right of translation with the copyright owner is