of the network, we employ a matching-free instance identity
over learning scheme and global instance embedding to learn
tracking approach. The instance identity (shown as red and
better features for robust instance tracking and segmentation.
green colors in Figure 1) can be directly corresponded to
HITF proposes inter-frame attention and intra-frame attention
the index of the instance code, thus greatly reducing the
layerswhichbridgesinstanceinformationacrossframesbyan
matching cost in the inference stage. From experimental and
instance code.
mathematical perspectives, we demonstrate that the order-
Offline VIS: The offline methods handle the sequence-to-
preserving property of instance codes is tight under natural
sequence prediction, where all frames are considered to be
scenes even without any supervision. This can shed light
equivalent. Given a clip of video, offline VIS is to segment,
on new directions of instance tracking. Our context fusion
classifyandtrackobjectinstancesinallclip-levelframesatthe
module is flexible to fuse multi-modal signals. We construct
same time. VISTR [60] utilizes a transformer encoder on top
an unconstrained audio-visual dataset for the VIS task, and
of the convolutional backbone and matches instance identities
demonstrate that audio is helpful for the VIS task but the
by transformer decoder. IFC introduces a frame memory
improvement is not significant due to the weak correlation
to reduce the computational cost for temporal aggregation,
between audio and visual signals in the wild scenarios. Our
which decouples the segmentation in each frame and only
contributions are three-fold.
communicates via frame memory.
• A robust context fusion module for modeling compact Videoobjectsegmentation.Videoobjectsegmentation(VOS)
andeffectivespatio-temporalcorrelationsforonlineVIS.
aimstosegmentobjectmasksacrossframesinaclass-agnostic
Our method achieves the state-of-the-art performance
manner. Typically, additional cues are given to specify the
among online VIS methods on Youtube-VIS 2019 and
target object. Semi-supervised VOS [67], [24], [61], [6], [46]
2021 benchmarks.
gives the first frame object mask to specify the target object.
• A matching-free and supervision-free instance identity RANet [