ology from Richard Smith, CEO of
Equifax, 2017)
In example 1, the positive appreciation resources “drastically increased” and “improved”
project the company’s confidence and competence to tackle the crisis and redress the
unfavorable situation. Moreover, these resources emphasize positive outcomes because of
corrective behavior.
(2) I am extremely [Graduation] sorry [negative Affect] and it is something we will never
[Heterogloss] forget and it is something we are utterly [Force] determined [positive
Judgment] will never be repeated. (Apology from Kevin Johnson, CEO of Starbucks, 2018)
19
As can be seen in example 2, the CEO conveys his regret and promise for a change as
instantiated in the expression of “determined will never be repeated,” whereby actions
adopted by the company are probably viewed positively by the public and help rebuild the
image of the company. The repeated emphasis on the positive influence brought by the
company’s actions facilitates the repair of the tarnished image and elicits forgiveness
(Worthington, 2006).
Mortification strategies include a predominant use of negative affect resources. As a
function of the “emotional framing of persuasive appeals,” affect (also termed as “pathos” in
Aristotle’s rhetorical triangle) could contribute to persuasiveness (DeSteno et al., 2004, p.
43). As suggested by Coombs and Holladay (2005), strong feelings of sympathy could assist
an organization in engendering potential supportive behavior from stakeholders. Consider the
following example 3.
(3) That begins with my sincere apologies [negative Affect] to everyone who has been
affected by this recall…especially to the families and friends of those who lost their
lives or were injured. I am deeply [Force] sorry [negative Affect]. (Apology from Mary
Barra, CEO of General Motors, 2014)
In Example 3, GM’s CEO expresses contrition for the defective ignition switch problem
through negative affect “apologies” and “sorry” with the boosted force “deeply.” Negative
affect resources present the CEO as a caring person who seeks forgiveness due to
misconduct. Furthermore, the prevailing use of intensifiers in expressing sincere remorse is
effective because the tone of voice