edial Effects, Maximizing Positive Effects, and Neutralizing
Negative Effects—we have illustrated when and how evaluative appraisal resources can be
linguistically deployed to compose apologies for different crisis response strategies. Finally,
this study has added a new perspective to research on corporate apologies by proposing an
integrated model of the IRT and appraisal framework. This model offers insights into how
preferred crisis response strategies are manifested through linguistic devices to enhance the
acceptability of apologies and achieve the goal of repairing relationships with the public.
Regarding practical implications, the findings provide value to crisis leaders, PR practitioners
and corporate communicators, and have pedagogical implications for instructors of PR
writing courses on how to compose well-written apologies through the strategic use of
evaluative appraisal resources.
In terms of limitations, the small size of the corpus and use of purposive sampling limit
the generalizability of the results. The proposed framework also requires further testing via
empirical research through the use of experiments and interviews to investigate the public’s
23
perceptions of the effectiveness of appraisal resources in apologies. Undertaking research on
the effectiveness of handling crises in a timely manner on social media would lend additional
focus to how instant CEO messages to crises are received.
24
References
Afifi, W. A. (2007). Nonverbal communication. In B. B. Whaley & W. Samter (Eds.),
Explaining communication: Contemporary theories and exemplars (pp.39-62).
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Austin, L., & Jin, Y. (2018). Social media and crisis communication. Routledge.
Barnett, M. L., Jermier, J. M., & Lafferty, B. A. (2006). Corporate reputation: The
definitional landscape. Corporate Reputation Review, 9(1), 26-38.
https://doi.org/10.1057/palgrave.crr.1550012
Benoit, W. L. (1995). Accounts, excuses, and apologies: A theory of image restoration
strategies. State University of New York Press.
Benoit, W. L. (2015). Accounts, excuses, apologies: Image repair theory and research (2nd
ed.). State University of New York Press.
Benoit, W. L. (2018). Crisis and image repair at United Airlines: Fly the