 the components of effective apologies (e.g., Bentley, 2018). This research
has considered the ethics of CEO apologies (Koehn & Goranova, 2018), the relationship
between the verbal content of CEO apologies and their acceptability (Pace et al., 2010), and
how CEOs’ emotions exhibited in apologies affect the sincerity of apologies (Ten Brinke &
Adams, 2015). In addition, prior research has found that admission of responsibility,
expression of remorse, and corrective action were the most useful strategies in CEO
apologies for repairing the damaged image in high-crisis responsibility situations (Ngai &
Jin, 2016; Benoit, 2018). Overall, these studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of
deploying integrated strategies to earn forgiveness, though few have scrutinized how these
strategies were discursively constructed in CEO apologies.
Linguistic approach for analyzing apology discourse
Corporate apologies might rely on the use of specific words to show the public that the
corporation is sincere and committed, for words can change the perceptions of interlocutors
(Erickson et al.,1978). One strand of linguistic research identifies features of apologies as
speech acts for mitigating the damage stemming from the crisis (e.g., Shariati & Chamani,
2010) while another strand is concerned with the communicative styles exhibited in apologies
(e.g., Rundquist, 2007). A third strand regards an apology as face work (Goffman, 1978),
viewing it as a strategy to reestablish rapport with the public (Ogiermann, 2009). However,
these studies do not reveal how the stance-taker (i.e., the CEO) negotiates his/her stance
through linguistically demonstrating his/her evaluative attitudes towards the crisis. The
appraisal framework, focusing on the expression of attitudes and values as an interpersonal
semantic approach (Martin & White, 2005), may contribute to the understanding of
discursive construction of CEO messages.
The appraisal framework, emanating from Systemic Functional Linguistics (Halliday,
1994), comprises linguistic evaluative resources exhibited in discourse which negotiate one’s
6
stance via attitudinal and evaluative expressions (Martin & White, 2005). The framework
consists of three evaluative systems—attitude, engagement, and graduation—with each
system constituted by its own subsystems. Affect, judgment, and