apology from
Bolstering
YH Eom, President and CEO of Samsung Electronics Europe,
2016)
We want our guests to understand that just because they
shopped at Target during the impacted time frame, it doesn’t
mean they are victims of fraud. In fact, in other similar
Reducing Minimization
situations, there are typically very low levels of actual fraud.
Offensiveness
(Apology from Gregg Steinhafel Chairman, President and CEO
of Target, 2013)
This will include, among other benefits, a month of free
PlayStation Plus membership for all PSN customers, as well as
Compensation an extension of subscriptions for PlayStation Plus and Music
Unlimited customers to make up for time lost. (Apology from
Howard Stringer, CEO of Sony, 2011)
That begins with my sincere apologies to everyone who has
Mortification been affected by this recall. (Apology from Mary Barra, CEO of
General Motors, 2014)
And we will work harder than ever with all our suppliers to
Corrective
make sure this never happens again. (Apology from Dave
Action
Lewis, CEO of Tesco, 2013)
12
In stage two, by drawing on the appraisal framework, we coded a typology of three
subsystems of attitude resources (affect, judgment, and appreciation) and their tonality
(positive and negative), one subsystem of engagement resources (heterogloss), and two
subsystems of graduation resources (force, focus) on a sentence basis. We excluded
monogloss in engagement resources because monogloss that rejects dialogue is inapplicable
given the interactive nature of apology discourse with the public.
To reveal the use of appraisal resources in different crisis response strategies, we
examined the lexical/phrasal verb indicators (Blum–Kulka & Levenston, 1987) of the
appraisal resources in each sentence. Table 3 illustrates the appraisal resources and the related
lexical/phrasal verb indicators in our data. It should be noted that sentences in the response
strategies not employing any appraisal resources were not included in our findings. Further,
we noticed that many sentences employed multiple lexical/phrasal verb indicators of various
appraisal resources categories and sub-categories. Therefore, double coding was allowed to
exhaustively code the use of appraisal resources in