 response strategies used in apologies are linguistically realized as previous
studies have mainly focused on the form and content of response strategies (Fediuk et al.,
2011). Drawing on the appraisal framework (Martin & White, 2005) that relies on textual
linguistic resources to negotiate evaluations and construct solidarity with the addressees, this
study proposes a framework that integrates crisis response strategies with evaluative appraisal
resources to achieve rhetorical persuasion. The framework provides conceptual tools for
analyzing and explaining how CEOs negotiate and restore trust through the apology
4
discourse. It also provides insights into which linguistic resources could be strategically
utilized in crafting effective apology statements for CEO crisis communication.
Conceptual Framework
Corporate apology discourse and image repair
When high-profile business crises (e.g., Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phone battery
explosions) pose challenges to corporate reputation, apologies are often offered as part of the
crisis response (Ma & Zhan, 2016). This study conceptualizes corporate apologies as
discourse characterized by a corporation’s acceptance of responsibility for a crisis and request
for forgiveness, which are essential for repairing a corporation’s image after a crisis (Coombs
& Holladay, 2008).
Image Repair Theory (IRT) (Benoit, 1995; 2015) encompasses five response strategies
for repairing corporate image from a crisis. These are denial (denial or shifting of blame),
evading responsibility (provocation, defeasibility, accident, or good intentions), reducing
offensiveness (bolstering, minimization, differentiation, transcendence, attacking the accuser,
or compensation), taking corrective action, and mortification. IRT has focused on image
repair discourse, yet it is unable to inform crisis managers about responding with appropriate
strategies to specific and predictable levels of crisis responsibility (Coombs, 2010). Thus, the
three crisis clusters (victim cluster, accidental cluster, and preventable cluster) outlined in the
Situational Crisis Communication Theory (SCCT) have emerged to assist crisis leaders in
responding with appropriate strategies, ranging from defensive strategies such as denial, to
the accommodative ones such as issuing an apology (Coombs, 2007; Coombs & Holladay,
2002).
Because apologies can minimize crisis-induced negative effects (Coombs & Holladay,
2002), especially when strong crisis responsibility is attributed to the corporation, scholars
5
have investigated