This is the Pre-Published Version.
This is the accepted version of the publication Wang, Q., Ngai, C. S.-B., & Singh, R. G. (2021). A Discursive Analysis of Crisis Response Strategies
in CEO Ap ologies—Drawing on Linguistic Insights from the Appraisal Framework. Management Communication Quarterly, 35(4), 602–622.
Copyright © 2021 (The Author(s)). DOI:10.1177/08933189211012009.
This is the accepted version
Research Note
A discursive analysis of crisis response strategies in CEO apologies:
Drawing on linguistic insights from the appraisal framework
Qian Wang1, Cindy Sing-bik Ngai2* and Rita Gill Singh3
1 Northwestern Polytechnical University, People Republic of China
2 Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung
Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong SAR, China.
3Language Centre, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon, Hong Kong
*Corresponding author
Email: cindy.sb.ngai@polyu.edu.hk
Tel: +852 2766 7465
Address: Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
Hong Kong.
1
Short biography of the authors
Qian Wang is an associate professor in the School of Foreign Studies at Northwestern
Polytechnical University, China. Her main research interests include cognitive linguistics,
academic discourse, and communication research.
Cindy S.B. Ngai is an assistant professor cum programme leader of MA in Bilingual
Corporate Communication at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Her research interests
include media and corporate communication, business, and academic discourse study.
Rita G. Singh is a senior lecturer in the Language Centre at Hong Kong Baptist University.
Her research interests include pedagogical practices, corporate communication, and blended
learning.
Author acknowledgement
This study is supported by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities with
grant No. G2019KY05202.
We would like to send our sincere gratitude to MCQ Editor Rebecca Meisenbach, as well as
the anonymous reviewers for their insightful guidance and suggestions. Their comments and
suggestions have helped us immensely in improving our manuscript.
2
A discursive analysis of crisis response strategies in CEO apologies:
Drawing on