 linguistic insights from the appraisal framework
Abstract
When corporations are confronted with a crisis, well-crafted CEO apologies can serve to
repair, restore, and rebuild a damaged corporate image. In prior research, the use of linguistic
resources exhibited in CEO corporate apology discourse for different crisis response
strategies has not been sufficiently examined. Drawing on the appraisal framework and
subsumed linguistic resources, this study analyzed the discursive construction of crisis
response strategies in the corporate apology discourse of leading companies listed in the
Fortune Global 2000. The findings revealed an integrated use of crisis response strategies in
which attitude appraisal resources predominated, while different types of appraisal resources
were deployed in various crisis response strategies to achieve rhetorical persuasion in
corporate communication. The proposed framework integrating crisis response strategies in
CEO apology discourse with appraisal resources could guide CEOs and crisis communicators
to use the right words when composing corporate apologies.
Keywords
crisis response strategy; corporate apology; appraisal framework; discursive analysis
3
Introduction
Corporations are increasingly exposed to unpredictable crises that can endanger their
reputation (Coombs, 2007). As corporate reputation is an invaluable asset (Barnett et al.,
2006; Coombs & Holladay, 2002), effective crisis responses from corporations are crucial in
maintaining, protecting, and defending reputation (Benoit, 1995), particularly when new and
social media allow crises to escalate rapidly (Austin & Jin, 2018).
When a corporation is involved in high levels of crisis responsibility, as in a preventable
crisis posing a huge reputational threat to the corporation, a well-composed corporate
apology could mitigate the negative effects of the crisis (Benoit, 2018; Coombs & Holladay,
2008; Hearit, 2006). In fact, many studies have shown that CEOs’ (Chief Executive Officers)
apologies could signal the corporation’s reparative behaviors and suggest greater
authoritative accountability (Turk et al., 2012). Arguably, the acceptance of an apology is
largely determined by the use of right words or strategically crafting the message through
various textual linguistic devices to achieve rhetorical persuasiveness. As messages
manifested in crisis response strategies can shape public perceptions of the crisis (Coombs,
1995), CEOs and public relations (PR) practitioners need to equip themselves with the right
words to compose convincing apologies for crisis management. However, little research has
examined how