 al.,
for long roll-out and variable length action space. The
2022), but fails with environments with more objects
agent observes the masked observation and takes an
and diverse actions (Shridhar et al., 2020b). Song
action conditioned on the current sub-task.
et al. (2022) uses GPT3 to generate step-by-step low-
We focus on instruction following in indoor households levelcommands, whicharethenexecutedbyrespective
ontheAlfWorld(Shridharetal.,2020b)interactivetext control policies. the work improves Ahn et al. (2022)
environmentbenchmark. Ourexperimentsandanalysis with more action diversity and on-the-fly re-plan. In
demonstrate that LLMs not only remove 40% of task- addition, all the above LLMs require few-shot demon-
irrelevantobjectsinobservationthroughcommon-sense strations of up to 17 examples, making the length of
QA, but also generate high-level sub-tasks with 99% the prompt infeasible for AlfWorld. Micheli & Fleuret
accuracy. In addition, multiple LLMs may be used in (2021) fine-tuned a GPT2-medium model on expert
coordination with each other to assist the agent from trajectories in AlfWorld and demonstrated impressive
different aspects. evaluation results. However, LM fine-tuning requires
a fully text-based environment, consistent expert tra-
Our contributions are as follows:
jectories, and a fully text-based action space. Such
1. PET: A novel framework for leveraging pre- requirements greatly limit the generalization to other
trained LLMs with embodied agents; our work domains, and even to other forms of task specification.
showsthateachofP,E,Tservesacomplementary WeshowthatourPETframeworkachievesbettergener-
role and should be simultaneously addressed to alization to human goal specifications which the agents
tackle control tasks. were not trained on.
2. AnActionAttentionagentthathandlesthechang-
ing action space for text environments.
Hierarchical Planning with Natural Language
3. A 15% improvement over SOTA for generalization
Due to the structured nature of natural language, An-
tohumangoalsviasub-taskplanningand