 is generally lower than object accuracy because of
forms poorly, we also include DAgger training results. the counter-intuitive spawning locations described in
Nevertheless, action attention assisted by PET outper- Section 4.5. In our experiments, a decision threshold
forms BUTLER with DAgger by more than 2x while of 0.4 has a recall of 0.91 and reduces the number of
being much more efficient. (Section 4.1) objects in observation by 40% on average.
4.3. Ablations for Plan, Eliminate, and Track Trackmodule Sincesub-taskalignmentinformation
is not provided by the environment, we explore an
In Table 3, we analyze the contribution of each PET
alternative performance metric for the detection of the
module by sequentially adding each component to the
event of completion. Ideally, a sub-task tracker should
actionattentionagenton140trainingtrajectoriessam-
record the last sub-task as “finished” if and only if the
pled from the training set. The data set size is chosen
environment is “fully solved” by the expert. As an
to match the size of the seen validation set, for an
agreement measure, we report a precision of 0.99 and
efficient and sparse setting. Note that we treat Plan
a recall of 0.78 for Macaw-11B and a precision of 0.96
and Track as a single module for this ablation since
and a recall of 0.96 for Macaw-large. The larger model
they cannot work separately.
(Macaw-11b)ismoreprecisebutmissesmoredetection,
Adding Plan and Track greatly improves the comple- therefore limiting the theoretical performance to 78%.
tion rate relatively by 60%, which provides evidence to The smaller model is much less accurate according to
our hypothesis that solving some embodied tasks step- human evaluation but does not limit the overall model
by-stepreducesthecomplexity. Weobservearelatively performance in theory. In our experiments, we find
insignificant 3% improvement in absolute performance thatbothmodelsproducesimilaroverallresults, which
when adding Eliminate without sub-task tracking. On may suggest that the overall results could be improved
the other hand, when applying Eliminate to sub-tasks withLLMsdoingbetteronbothprecisionandrecall.
with Plan and Track,