ions by a sin- terdatasourceissatelliteimagerybasedonremotesensing
gleimage-baseddetector. [7, 12, 26, 27, 16]. However, the main limitation of satel-
To overcome the aforementioned challenges, we have liteimageryisthatitcouldnotprovidedetaileddamagein-
collectedthefirstdatasetwithaerialvideosfornaturaldis- formation due to the long distance to the captured build-
aster damage assessment. Our dataset, namely ISBDA ings and its limited vertical viewpoint. We are the first to
(Instance Segmentation in Building Damage Assessment), propose a dataset from drone video viewpoints (typically
consistsoffine-grainedbuildingdamageboundingboxand aboutforty-fivedegrees)fordamageassessmenttaskswith
mask annotations of different damage levels. This pro- instance-leveldamageannotations.
videsthefirstquantitativebenchmarkforevaluatingbuild-
ingdamageassessmentmodels. Oursecondcontributionis
toproposeanewneuralnetworkmodel,MSNet,toaddress Damage Detection Approaches. Current damage detec-
thedifficultiesofaccuratelydetectingdamagesinbuildings tion approaches can be put into three categories. The
with aerial videos. Our model makes use of the hierarchi- first category is using supervised machine learning meth-
cal relationship between building and damage, and inter- ods which include pixel-based relevant change detection
frame spatial consistency of multiple viewpoints to train [5] and object-based local descriptors [29]. The second
more robust representations. To summarize, our contribu- category includes unsupervised methods [11, 21, 23] that
tionisfourfold: generally refer to outlier detection in scene changes. The
third category, a recent trend on damage assessment is us-
• We present the first natural disaster building damage ing semi-supervised approaches [10] aimed at using less
assessmentdataset,namelyISBDA,usingaerialdrone human-labeleddataandmaintaininghigheraccuracy.Other
videos. Itisannotatedwithfine-grainedinstance-level literature also proposed deep learning frameworks such as
building and damage bounding boxes and masks. It Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) [1, 22] to predict
provid