k audio clips is labeled using one or more of 200 classes from the Au-
dioSet Ontology, encompassing environmental sounds, speech, and music. Unlike the other
datasets, for FSD50K scene embeddings we did not alter the audio clip length. Each clip
is between 0.3 and 30 seconds long. We use the predefined train/val/eval split. Evaluation
is done using mean average precision (mAP).
Gunshot Triangulation Gunshot triangulation is a novel resource multiclass classifica-
tiontaskthatutilizes auniquedataset: gunshotsrecordedinanopenfieldusingiPodTouch
devices (Cooper and Shaw, 2020). This data consist of 22 shots from 7 different firearms,
for a total of 88 audio clips, the smallest dataset in HEAR. Each shot is recorded using four
different iPod Touches, located at different distances from the shooter. The goal of this
task is to classify audio by the iPod Touch that recorded it, i.e., to identify the location of
the microphone. The dataset was split into 7 different folds, where each firearm belonged
to only one fold. Results are averaged over each fold.
23
Turian et al.
GTZAN Genre TheGTZANGenreCollection (Tzanetakis and Cook,2002)isadataset
of 1000 audio tracks (each 30 seconds in duration) that are categorized into ten genres (100
tracks per genre). The task is multiclass classification. As per the literature, scores are
averaged over 10 folds. However, we don’t used the corrected artist-conditional splits from
(Sturm, 2013).
GTZAN Music Speech GTZAN Music Speechis abinaryclassification task, wherethe
goal is to distinguish between music and speech. The dataset consists of 120 tracks (each
30 seconds in duration) and each class (music/speech) has 60 examples.
LibriCount LibriCount is a multiclass speaker count identification task (Sto¨ter et al.,
2018b). Thedataset contains audioof asimulated cocktail party environment withbetween
0 to 10 speakers. The goal of this task is to classify how many speakers are present in each
of the recordings. Following Sto¨ter et al. (2018a), we treat this as a classification, not
regression, problem.
MA