NET RESEARCH Wong et al
Figure 1. Sentiment of tweets about the Affordable Care Act or Obamacare by state, March 2014. Twitter sentiment (the positivity or negativity of
tweets with higher sentiment scores indicating more positive sentiment) are presented in quartiles.
http://www.jmir.org/2015/2/e51/ J Med Internet Res 2015 | vol. 17 | iss. 2 | e51 | p. 5
XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes)
•
RenderX
JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INTERNET RESEARCH Wong et al
Figure 2. Correlation between Twitter sentiment and health insurance marketplace enrollment by state, March 2014. Abbreviations indicate US state.
Vermont excluded due to outlier marketplace enrollment.
absolute Twitter sentiment for each group was similar. Finally,
Discussion
further examination of states in which Twitter sentiment and
marketplace enrollment were discordant are needed.
Principal Findings
In our study conducted during the first open enrollment period Of note, some studies using social media have recently come
of the health insurance marketplaces, we identified a significant under scrutiny for manipulating people and violating their
correlation at the US state level between the ACA-related privacy [24,25]. Concern for such research was directed toward
Twitter sentiment and the percent of eligible individuals who both the use of private data and the performance of an
enrolled in a marketplace plan under the ACA. This correlation intervention without a clear informed consent. Neither of those
indicates the potential for Twitter to be a real-time monitoring properties apply to this study: we used public archival data and
strategy for future health insurance marketplace enrollment did not attempt to intervene on Twitter users’lives. We believe
periods. Marketplaces could leverage systematic tracking of studies like ours, which simply present statically grounded
Twitter sentiment through commercially available software observations over public data, pose no risk to individuals and
packages to more rapidly identify signals that indicate changes present no ethical concerns. Our study was approved by the
in marketplace enrollment, including emerging issues [23]. For University of Pennsylvania’s Institutional Review Board under
example, a down-trending Twitter sentiment may indicate a “exempt” status.
problem in the marketplace, which could be further delineated
Conclusions
by examining the content of negatively skewed tweets.
Twitter is a repository of free and accessible consumer-generated
Streng