The Incremental Use of Morphological
Information and Lexicalization
in Data-Driven Dependency Parsing
Gu¨l¸sen Eryig˘it1 Joakim Nivre2 Kemal Oflazer3
1 Department of Computer Engineering, IstanbulTechnical Univ.,34469 Turkey
2 School of Mathematics and SystemsEngineering, V¨axj¨o Univ.,35195 Sweden
3 Faculty of Engineering and Natural Sciences, Sabancı Univ., 34956 Turkey
Abstract. Typologicaldiversityamongthenaturallanguagesoftheworld
posesinterestingchallengesforthemodelsandalgorithmsusedinsyntactic
parsing.Inthispaper,weapplyadata-drivendependencyparsertoTurk-
ish, a language characterized by rich morphology and flexible constituent
order,andstudytheeffectofemployingvaryingamountsofmorpholexical
information on parsing performance. The investigations show that accu-
racycanbeimprovedbyusingrepresentationsbasedoninflectionalgroups
rather than word forms, confirming earlier studies. In addition, lexicaliza-
tionandtheuseofrichmorphologicalfeaturesarefoundtohaveapositive
effect. By combining all these techniques, we obtain the highest reported
accuracy for parsing the Turkish Treebank.
1 Introduction
An important issue in empirically minded research on natural language parsing
is to what extent our models and algorithms are tailored to properties of specific
languages or language groups. This issue is especially pertinent for data-driven
approaches, where one of the claimed advantages is portability to new languages.
Theresultssofarmainlycomefromstudieswhereaparseroriginallydevelopedfor
English, such as the Collins parser [1], is applied to a new language, which often
leads to a significant decrease in the measured accuracy [2, 3, 4, 5, 6]. However,
it is often quite difficult to tease apart the influence of different features of the
parsing methodology in the observed degradation of performance.
One topic that is prominent in the literature is the issue of lexicalization, i.e.,
to what extent the accuracycan be improvedby incorporating features that refer
to individual lexical items, as opposed to class-based features such as part-of-
speech. Whereas the best performing parsers for English all make use of lexical
information,therealbenefitsoflexical