-Id Suru..
is derived mainly from electron microscopy, ordinary 37, A, 1292 (1955)_
• Bassett, C. Andrew (private communication).
histological preparations, and microradiography1• Such
a structure, consisting essentially of apatite crystals
embedded in an organic matrix, might be expected to A Possible Mechanism of Neurosecretion :
exhibit piezoelectric properties, as in the case of many
Release of Vasopressin by Depolarization
other multicrystalline structures.
and its Dependence on Calcium
This has been conclusively demonstrated by Fukada
and Yasuda•, who measured the piezoelectric constants of IT is recognized that the various influences, nervous and
small specimens of compact bone cut from human and ox osmotic, which bring about release of the hormones vaso
femurs. These authors conclude from the observed pressin and oxytocin from the neurosecretory terminals in
relationship between polarization and stress that the effect the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland act through the
is truly piezoelectric, and they suggest that it results from parent cells in the supra-optic and pare.ventricular nuclei.
the slipping of collagen fibres pa.st one another. Such a scheme demands that these cell bodies in the
We have observed the same stress-induced electrical hypothalamus regulate release of hormone from their
effect in a number of whole bones from different anatomical terminals a considerable distance away and it is simplest
sites and species, both in bending and compression modes. to suppose that this regulation is effected by action
The bones were cleaned of soft t.issue and periosteum, then potentials propagated down the supra-opticohypophysial
placed in an ultrasonic cleaner with detergent and finally tract. In this view the cells of the supra-opticohypophysial
dried. Electrodes wore painted on the bones with con system possess the characteristic property of neurones
ductive paint (DuPont silver paint No. 4817), leads were the propagation of action potentials-as well as the
attached to these electrodes and connected to a vibrating characteristic property of endocrine organs-the libera
reed eloctrometor (Applied Physics Corporation model 31), tion of hormones into the blood stream1•2-
the output of which was displayed