 on a chart recorder. The purpose of this communication is to give a prelim
To minimize electrical pickup the bone being tested was inary account of experiments indicating that depolariza
kept in a shielded box and stressed from the outside. Bones tion of the endings of the supra-opticohypophysial tract,
which were stressed by bending, such as human ribs or such as might be caused by action potentials, is an
rabbit femurs, were clamped at one end and bent by adequate stimulus for the release of vasopressin and
applying a force normal to the other end. Shorter bones. suggesting an explanation of the way in which depolar
such as a human toe phalanx, were stressed by applying ization may act.
known compressive forces lengthwise along the bone axis. The experiments were performed on rats weighing about
Our results may be illustrated by the following example: 150 g. The infundibular stem was cut and the posterior
the ends of a human toe phalanx were squared off with a pituitary glands rapidly removed, halved and suspended
saw to permit uniform application of the compressive force. in vitro in Locke's solution at 37·5° C. Five glands were
Two silver bands, spaced 12·7 mm apart, were painted used in each experiment. At intervals of 20 min the
completely around the mid-portion of the bone. Tho d.c. incubation medium was drawn off and replaced with fresh
resist!lnce between these electrodes was approximately 10• medium of the same or different composition. The pressor
ohms. Sudden application of a static force resulted in a activity of the incubates was then assayed against pitres
potential difference between the electrodes proportional sin using the method described by Dekanski 3 - After 20-40
to the stress and with a decay time of about 0·5 sec; the min incubation in Locke's solution the resting output of
latter appeared to be characteristic not only of the vasopressin was generally about 20 µu per gland per min_
electrical circuit constants but also of some mechanical A much higher rate of secretion occurred when the
property (relaxation phenomenon) of the bone. On potassium concentration was raised ten-fold (to 56 mM). A
releasing the stress the same voltage pulse appeared with typical effect is shown in Fig. Ia. This powerful stimulant
opposite polarity. The magnitude