. However, since the ISL-UFHD dataset contains twice
more data for no interaction class than interaction class,
we put aside 5,000 images from no face-hand interaction
class to avoid class bias in face-hand interaction detec-
tion experiments. Further, we utilized published face mask
datasetsincross-datasetexperiments.Weusedthepublicly
available versions1 of RMFD and RWMFD [10]. RMFD Fig. 4 Class activation map (CAM): a face mask detection task, b
face-hand interaction detection task, c misclassified samples of face
includes around 2,203 masked face images. For RWMFD,
maskdetectiontask,dmisclassifiedsamplesofface-handinteraction
we executed RetinaFace and obtained 5,171 face images detectiontask
from 4343 images. We used MaskedFace-Net dataset [16]
which contains 130,000 face images belongs to correctly
wornfacemasks(CMFD)andincorrectlywornfacemasks separately. It is also observed that the precision and recall
(IMFD) subsets. Face mask dataset (Kaggle) [35] contains valuesareveryaccuratefornomaskandmaskclasses,while
853images.Weusedprovidedannotationstoacquire4,080 the results for improper mask class are slightly lower than
cropfaces. thesetwoclasses.Eventhoughimproperfacemaskimages
may confuse with proper face mask images due to visual
4.1 Facemaskdetection similarity,themoreprobablereasonbehindthisoutcomeis
thelackofimagesforimpropermaskclass.
InTable2,wepresentedtheresultsofthetrainingsonISL- In Fig. 4a, we demonstrated Class Activation Maps
UFMD.Accordingtotheexperimentalresults,althoughall (CAM) [45] for the face mask detection task to investigate
employed models achieved significantly high performance, activation of the model. It is clearly seen that the model
thebestoneisInception-v3modelwith98.20%classification focuses on the middle part of the faces, particularly on the
accuracy.Inadditiontotheclassificationaccuracy,wealso nose and mouth. In the second image, the model identified
presentedprecisionandrecallmeasurementsforeachclass improper mask usage since the nose of