decoder network to enhance the predicted
mattegenerationnetworkforalphamatteprediction. While alphamattebytakingsmallpatchesfromthebordersofthe
thesegmentationmodeltakesasingleRGBimagetopredict subjectsincetheseregionsaremorelikelytobeinaccurate.
thesegmentationmap, thealphamattegenerationnetwork TheproposedsystemisshowninFigure1.
produces alpha matte using the input image as well as the GeneratorsWhilethecontentencodingblockisrespon-
predicted segmentation map. In the alpha generation net- sibleforencodingtheinputimagetoobtainafeaturemap,
work, there are two parallel similar encoder blocks, which the segmentation encoding block provides a feature repre-
are the content encoding block and the segmentation en- sentationofthepredictedsegmentationmapandforeground
codingblock. Whilethecontentencodingblockprovidesa subject.Theideabehindusingseparateencodersistoavoid
featurerepresentationfortheinputimage,thesegmentation vanishingthefeaturesofthesegmentationmapandthefore-
encodingblockencodesthedepth-wiseconcatenationofthe ground subject. We also found that the segmentation map
predictedsegmentationmapandforegroundsubjectthatis and extracted foreground subject provide complementary
obtainedbymultiplyingtheinputimageandpredictedseg- feature representations to the network. According to the
mentation map. Afterward, the outputs of both encoders experiments,wenoticedthatusingasingleencodercauses
are concatenated along with the depth. The concatenated thevanishingofthefeaturerepresentationoftheadditional
feature representation passes through consecutive residual inputs. Besides,weempiricallyrealizethatalesscomplex
blocks and the decoder network to obtain the predicted al- encoder is suitable to encode these additional inputs. Our
phamatte. Besides,thereareskipconnectionsbetweenthe generator is based on the U-Net generator [37] and it con-
decoder’s layers and the encoders’ layers. Since the con- tains consecutive convolutional blocks to downsample the
input image. After the encoding blocks, the features are [0,1]pixelsandthepixelsbetween0