measuresthenewstateofthe
environmentandchoosesthenextobjecttograsp. Forexample, iftherobotfailstograspabowl,
and slightly shifts the bowl, the cameras measure the new pose of the bowl, which is sent to the
policy. However,TTPreliesonaccurateperceptionofthestate. Ifanobjectisincorrectlyclassified,
thepolicymightchoosetopickthewrongobject,deviatingfromthedemonstrationpreference. In
thefuture, wewouldliketofurtherevaluateourapproachonmorediversereal-worldsettingsand
measureitssensitivitytothedifferenthardwarecomponents,informingfuturechoicesforlearning
robustpolicies.
A.3 Transforminghardwaretosimulationdatadistribution
The policy trained in simulation applies zero-shot to real-world scenarios, but it requires a co-
ordinate transform. Fig. 10 shows the coordinate frame of reference in simulation and real
world setting. Since our instance embedding uses the poses of objects, it is dependant on
the coordinate frame that the training data was collected in. Since hardware and simulation
are significantly different, this coordinate frame is not the same between sim and real. We
build a transformation that converts hardware measured poses to the simulation frame of ref-
erence, which is then used to create the instance tokens. This ensures that there is no sim-
to-real gap in object positions, reducing the challenges involved in applying such a simulation
trained policy to hardware. In this section we describe how we convert the real world coor-
dinates to simulation frame coordinates for running the trained TTP policy on a Franka arm.
14
We use the semantic work area in simulation and hardware
to transform the hardware position coordinates to simulation
position coordinates. We measure the extremes of the real
workspace by manually moving the robot to record positions
and orientations that define the extents of the workspace for
the table. The extents of the drawers are measured by plac-
ing ARTag markers. We build 3 real-to-sim transformations
Figure 10: Coordinate Frame of using the extents for counter, top rack and bottom rack: Let
reference in simulation (left) and
X ∈ R3×N containhomogeneousxz−coordinatesofawork
