 sets and for OpenEphyra.
Thus source expansion not only increases search recall but it also slightly improves
the rankings for questions whose answers were already found in the seed corpus. This
is not an obvious result because the expanded documents contain noise in addition to
useful content, and sometimes low-quality text is retrieved at high ranks because it
contains many query terms. This analysis shows that the impact of relevant content
in the expanded sources outweighs the effect of noise even for those questions that
have good coverage in the original sources.
6.4 End-to-End Experiments
The improvements in search performance are promising, but what ultimately matters
isfinalQAaccuracyafterextractingandrankingthecandidateanswers. Wenowshow
that statistical source expansion also significantly improves end-to-end QA results.
In fact, the gains can even be larger than the improvements in search recall if the
expanded sources are used to retrieve additional supporting evidence and candidate
answers are scored effectively.
6.4.1 Experimental Setup
We again used Watson to evaluate the impact of SE on end-to-end QA performance.
OpenEphyra was not a suitable framework for these experiments because its answer
scoring component was designed to leverage redundancy in web search results. When
using smaller local sources, the search results may only mention a correct answer
once, and OpenEphyra often cannot distinguish it from incorrect answers of the same
type. Thus the final QA accuracy tends to be low and has high variance. Watson, on
the other hand, uses a comprehensive statistical framework for answer scoring that
combines hundreds of features that leverage various sources of evidence ranging from
unstructured text to ontologies and triple stores. These features take into account
whether a candidate is of the correct type implied by the question, the correlation
of the candidate with key terms in the question, its popularity, the reliability of its
source, the lexical and semantic similarity of the question and passages that con-
tain the answer, and much more. This statistical answer selection approach is more
effective and depends much less on redundant search results.
98 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
In end-to-end experiments, Watson leverages the expanded sources both to gen-
erate candidate answers and to score the candidates and select the final answer:
1. As described previously, Watson retrieves text