jacent, giving weight
α to the sequential model and weight 1 − α to the logistic regression model.
In each step of the cross-validation, we tuned α by maximizing MAP on the
training folds. The average interpolation weight was α = 0.99 for sentence-level
nuggets and α = 0.57 for markup-based nuggets.
8.2.4 Results and Analysis
In Table 8.3 we show MAP scores for each of the statistical relevance models and
for both types of text nuggets. Precision-recall curves for the best-performing linear
model LR Adjacent and the sequential model are given in Figure 8.8. The sequential
model has a higher MAP than the logistic regression models on both sentence-level
textnuggetsandmarkup-basednuggets, andtheprecision-recallcurvesillustratethat
the sequential model also has higher precision than the best linear model at all but
very low recall levels. It can further be seen that effective modeling of dependencies
between nearby text passages is more important when ranking smaller units of text.
The performance gains from using a sequential model are quite noticeable on the
shorter sentence nuggets but very small on the longer paragraph nuggets.
The interpolated model only slightly outperforms the individual models in terms
of MAP. The precision-recall curves are similar to the ones for the sequential model
and were omitted in the plot for ease of presentation. When tuning the interpolation
weight on sentence-level nuggets, the sequential model is given most of the weight
(α = 0.99) since it is more effective and the logistic regression model does not seem
to add much new information. On markup-based nuggets, the two models do not only
perform similarly and are given similar weights in the linear combination (α = 0.57),
but their predictions also seem to be highly correlated since the interpolation hardly
improves performance.
We performed one-sided Wilcoxon signed-rank tests to determine whether the im-
provements in nugget ranking performance are statistically significant. In Section 5.3
we described the setup of these significance tests. Table 8.4 shows p-values for each
8.2. SEQUENTIAL MODELS 141
1.0
Sequential
(Markup)
0.9 Sequential
(Sentence)
0.8
