 performance was
not evaluated, and it is unclear whether the algorithm helped.
Li and Meng [2003] show that document expansion can improve search per-
formance in cross-lingual spoken document retrieval. In their evaluation, English
newswire documents are used as queries to retrieve relevant broadcast news stories in
Mandarin. The queries are translated to Chinese and the broadcast news are tran-
scribed with an ASR system. Li and Meng deploy a vector space retrieval model,
using syllable bigrams as the basic indexing unit. The speech transcriptions are used
as queries to retrieve related documents from a Chinese newswire corpus, and are ex-
panded with terms extracted from those documents. This expansion approach yields
consistent gains in mean average precision2 on a test set of 195 queries.
Similarly, Levow and Oard [2002] used document expansion for cross-lingual topic
detection and tracking (TDT) in the TDT-3 evaluation [Graff et al., 1999]. Given
English newswire articles as training data, the task was to retrieve Mandarin news
stories that cover the same topics. The collection of Mandarin documents used in
TDT-3 comprises both newswire documents and automatically transcribed broadcast
news. While Li and Meng [2003] translate English queries to Chinese and perform
document expansion in the target language, Levow and Oard translate the Chinese
news and expand the translations using an English newswire corpus. The document
expansion improves the effectiveness of the topic tracking system on both newswire
articles and broadcast news, with a slightly larger gain on the (presumably noisier)
speech transcriptions.
Tao et al. [2006] apply document expansion to information retrieval using lan-
guage models. Their retrieval engine ranks the documents in a collection by the KL
divergence between language models estimated from the query and the documents.
To mitigate the problem of data sparsity when estimating document language mod-
els, each model is interpolated with the language models of similar documents in the
collection. Cosine similarities are used to identify the most similar documents and
to weight those documents. This approach consistently improves retrieval accuracy
2See Section 3.3 for a definition of mean average precision (MAP).
2.3. DOCUMENT EXPANSION 13
on different TREC datasets. The largest gains are realized when expanding short
documents that would otherwise yield sparse language models.
B