 couldbesubstitutedwithany
other document retrieval system that returns relevant search results for a given seed
corpus, and the search-related features could be replaced with similar features that
are based onthis retrieval system. Notall search engines returnsummary snippets for
the results in the hit list, which are needed to compute the SearchAbstractCoverage
feature,butinsteadotherusefulmetadatamaybeavailable. Forinstance,information
retrieval systems for locally indexed text corpora, such as Indri and Lucene, return
continuous relevance scores for the retrieved documents, which could be used as an
additional search feature.
4.3. SCORING 45
In Section 5.3 we perform a detailed analysis of the utility of individual features
for the task of ranking text nuggets by relevance. The topicality features are generally
most useful for separating relevant from irrelevant text, followed by the search-related
features. The surface features mostly evaluate textual quality and are less predictive
on their own, but they do improve relevance estimation performance when combined
with topicality and search-based features in a statistical model.
4.3.3 Relevance Models
Given a dataset of text nuggets with binary relevance judgments, the nugget scoring
problem can be solved by regression or binary classification. In the latter case, the
probabilityofthepositiveclassorthedistanceofaninstancefromthedecisionbound-
ary can be used as a continuous relevance measure. Thus, any regression method or
any classification approach that yields continuous confidence estimates (e.g. logistic
regression, support vector machines, or hidden Markov models) can in principle be
used to score the text nuggets.
Initially we fitted a logistic regression (LR) model [Agresti, 2002] using all of the
19 topicality, search and surface features from Section 4.3.2. This model estimates
the relevance of each text nugget independently, ignoring its context in the source
document it was extracted from. However, when looking at a sample of the retrieved
web pages, it became evident that this independence assumption does not hold in
practice, but that a text nugget is more likely to be relevant if preceding or following
nuggets are relevant. This is because the retrieved web pages often contain sequences
of relevant nuggets, such as sentences and paragraphs in a narrative or related items
