etshowninTable6.16
must be due to an increase in redundancy.
We havealso seen thatsource expansionsignificantly improves searchrecall, but it
is not clear whether this is because of an increase in coverage or semantic redundancy.
If no relevant search results were retrieved without SE, it may be that the answer
was not supported by the original sources, or the answer was not found because
104 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
of vocabulary mismatches between the query and the corpus or because additional
inference would have been required. We looked at all questions in our three datasets
for which a relevant search result was retrieved only from the expanded sources and
determinedwhetherthecorrectansweralsoappearssomewhereintheoriginalcorpus.
Interestingly, this was the case for every one of these questions. However, even if a
corpus contains the answer string, it may not support it as the correct answer to a
given question. That is, the answer may appear in a different context and it can be
impossible, even for a human reader, to deduce that this is the entity the question is
asking for. It is often difficult to determine whether an answer is supported by a large
document collection, but we did find instances where we are reasonably certain that
crucial information is missing in the original sources. Here are examples of Jeopardy!
questions that could only be answered after improving the coverage of the baseline
corpus through source expansion:
• Category: AMERICANA
Clue: In 2003 chef Daniel Boulud started shaving truffles onto this fast
food favorite & charging $50 for it
Answer: hamburger
Wikipedia contains an article about Daniel Boulud but it does not mention the
answer. In addition, we searched the original sources using queries consisting of
keywords from the clue and the answer, but were unable to find any documents
that mention (ham)burgers with truffles.
• Category: HUMANITARIAN LADIES
Clue: Throughout the 1930s, she taught geography at St. Mary’s High
School in Eastern India
Answer: Mother Teresa
None of the original documents that mention Mother Teresa and St. Mary’s
High School contain the information that she was a teacher at this school. One
could make an educated guess based on other facts that are covered in