relevant texts on topics such as people, organizations or events. For instance, Blair-
Goldensohn et al. [2004] describe a hybrid approach to answering definitional ques-
tionsthatcombinesknowledge-basedandstatisticalmethods. Weischedeletal.[2004]
answer biographical questions of the form Who is X? by automatically extracting lin-
guistic constructs such as appositives and propositions from sentences mentioning a
person. More recently, various strategies for definitional QA have been proposed in
the proceedings of the Text REtrieval Conference [Dang et al., 2007]. Kaisser et al.
[2006] present a simple yet effective web reinforcement approach which scores candi-
date sentences based on how frequently their keywords occur in web search results.
Qiu et al. [2007] extract sentences from the sources and rank them with a statistical
model that combines syntactic features, retrieval scores and language models.
2.2. CONSTRUCTION OF LOCAL SOURCES 9
However, while all these systems generate answers to individual questions from
existing sources at QA runtime, source expansion is concerned with the construction
of new source material in a preprocessing step. The new sources can then be used by
a QA system to answer a wide range of questions from different domains with little
computational overhead at runtime. An efficient definitional QA algorithm may also
be applied offline to compile summaries about a large set of pre-defined topics, but
this would require an approach for identifying topics that are relevant to a given QA
domain without knowing the questions yet. Our statistical SE approach relies on a
seed corpus to select the topics, assuming that the corpus is at least partially relevant
and mentions topics that are central to the QA domain. In addition, as discussed
previously, the SE approach benefits from existing seed content when determining
the relevance of candidate text, whereas a definitional QA algorithm only relies on a
short topic string given in the question.
2.2 Construction of Local Sources
QA systems often use the Web as a large, redundant information source [Clarke et al.,
2001, Dumais et al., 2002], but it has also been noted that there are situations where
a local search is preferable [Clarke et al., 2002, Katz et al., 2003]. Clarke et al. [2002]
analyzed the impact of a locally indexed web crawl