
The Indri passage query also assigns a higher weight to the named entity than to
the other query terms. Note that these questions were chosen as examples because
the queries are relatively simple, and that they are not intended to fully illustrate
Watson’s query generation capabilities. For additional details, we refer the reader to
Chu-Carroll and Fan [2011] and Chu-Carroll et al. [2012a].
Watson was developed for the Jeopardy! challenge, but has also been adapted to
the TREC task [Ferrucci et al., 2010]. Thus we were able to use this QA system to
evaluate search performance on both Jeopardy! and TREC questions. However, we
only used TREC 8–12 in our experiments because Watson currently does not support
the question series in more recent TREC datasets. Each text passage and document
title retrieved from the sources was automatically matched against the answer keys,
82 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
and was judged as relevant if any subsequence of its tokens was a correct answer.
Performance was measured in search recall, the percentage of questions with relevant
results. Search recall is an important metric in QA because it constitutes an upper
bound on end-to-end accuracy. Note that mean average precision (MAP) is not a
suitable performance metric for this task since there is no predefined set of positive
instances. Thus a configuration that retrieves a single relevant search result at a high
rank would score higher than a setup that retrieves additional relevant results at low
ranks. Likewise, the mean reciprocal rank (MRR) should be used with caution when
evaluating search rankings because it is most sensitive to the top few search results
and is hardly affected by relevant results at low ranks.
6.3.2 Watson Results and Analysis
Table 6.6 shows the impact of source expansion on Watson’s search recall when re-
trieving only passages or titles and when combining these search results. The recall
numbers are based on 20 text passages and up to 55 document titles per question
(50 titles in experiments with only Wikipedia or Wiktionary and their expansions),
retrieved with the queries described in the previous section. We also indicate for each
combination of sources and test set the number of questions gained and lost through
SE and the percentage gain. The performance on the regular Jeopardy