2 we discuss why we believe that source expansion is an important area of QA
research and in which situations this approach can be applied. Promising directions
for future research are suggested in Section 9.3.
9.1 Summary
We proposed a statistical approach for source expansion (SE) and implemented an
end-to-end system that extends a collection of seed documents with related informa-
tion from large, external text corpora. For each seed document, our system (1) re-
trieves related documents from other resources such as the Web, (2) extracts self-
contained text nuggets from the retrieved documents, (3) estimates the relevance of
those nuggets with a statistical model, and (4) compiles a new pseudo-document from
the most relevant content, avoiding lexically redundant text. This SE process aug-
ments the seed corpus with new related information, and it adds reformulations of
information that was already covered in the seeds. The additional content can bene-
fit information retrieval or extraction applications that require large, redundant and
high-quality textual resources. Our implementation of the SE method is robust and
efficient, enabling us to expand hundreds of thousands of seed documents that vary
widely in length, style and topics with content extracted from millions of web pages.
The expanded text corpora were easily integrated into Watson and OpenEphyra, two
QA systems that are based on very different architectures and that leverage their
information sources in different ways.
The key component of the SE approach is a statistical model for the relevance
estimation task (step 3). We have seen that a large amount of training data can be
labeled for this task by using an efficient annotation interface, and that high inter-
annotator agreement can be achieved if a detailed set of guidelines is followed. This
annotation methodology was applied to create a dataset of over 160,000 hand-labeled
text nuggets, and different methods for ranking text by relevance were evaluated and
1For an overview of the source expansion approach and our key findings on QA datasets, please
also refer to Schlaefer et al. [2011].
145
146 CHAPTER 9. CONCLUSIONS
compared on this data. The best-performing statistical models combine various top-
icality features, search-based features and surface features of the retrieved text to
estimate the relevance and textual quality of text nuggets and achieve MAP scores