 entries
than when using long Wikipedia articles as seeds.
5.5 Error Analysis
To better understand under which conditions the statistical relevance estimation ap-
proach fails and to identify opportunities for further improvements, we analyzed the
rankings generated by the best-performing model LR Adjacent for markup-based text
nuggets in the hand-labeled dataset. In particular, we took a closer look at nuggets
that were ranked high by the model but were labeled as irrelevant by a human an-
notator (false positives), and nuggets that were ranked low but were annotated as
relevant (false negatives). Many of these text nuggets are borderline cases that could
be labeled differently by other annotators, or instances where the annotator clearly
made a mistake. Thus we somewhat underestimated the ranking performance of the
statistical models and the baselines in Sections 5.3 and 5.4. However, we also found
examples of false positives and false negatives that reveal limitations of the current
relevance model and feature set.
Some text nuggets do not provide much useful information but are ranked high
by the model because they contain many topical terms that also appear in the seed
document and because they consist of well-formed English text. For example, these
nuggets have high confidence scores but are largely irrelevant:
• Topic: Berlin Wall
Score: 0.8661
Freedom wins! View the photos of this historic occasion as witnessed by four Ameri-
can adventurers who joined East Germans in their introduction to freedom and who
helped tear down the Wall. Read the adventures of The Berlin Wall Freedom Expe-
dition. Post your stories from this historic period. Buy a piece of the Berlin Wall as
a symbol of the end of the Cold War and the triumph of freedom.
• Topic: Mother Teresa
Score: 0.7386
The more than 180 fine art quality tri-tone photographs, along with spiritual counsel
fromMotherTeresa, willprovidealifetimeofrichmaterialforprayerandmeditation.
Also included and published for the first time ever, with Mother Teresa’s special
permission, is an appendix containing the contents of the Missionaries of Charity
daily prayer book as well as a most personal and profound letter on the interior life
writtenbyMotherTeresaduringHolyWeekof1993andaddressedtoherentireorder.
Though meant originally as an instruction and appeal to those in