 Western World has for some years been made aware of a Jewish girl through the
medium of what purports to be her personally written story, “Anne Frank’s Diary.”
Any informed literary inspection of this book would have shown it to have been
impossible as the work of a teenager.
To penalize subjectivity, the current feature set could be augmented with a relevance
feature that indicates whether a text nugget contains opinions. Such a feature could
be derived from a rule-based subjectivity analysis approach that uses a sentiment
lexicon [Wiebe and Riloff, 2005], or a statistical classifier that is trained on a corpus
with opinion annotations [Pang and Lee, 2004].
Often,thestatisticalrelevancemodelassignshighscorestotextnuggetscontaining
personal accounts or quotations that are about the topic of interest but that are too
detailedtowarranttheirinclusionintheexpandedcorpus. Forinstance, anuggetmay
describe a historic event or an encounter with a famous person from the perspective
of an eye witness. Here are two examples:
5.5. ERROR ANALYSIS 69
• Topic: Berlin Wall
Score: 0.8554
We drove first to Brandenburgerplatz, where the statute of Winged Victory stands
atop a 50 meter column, which celebrates a military victory in the 1890s over Den-
mark. Carswereabandonedeverywhere,wherevertherewasspace. Over5,000people
were there. I began talking to people. We left the car and began to walk through a
village of television trucks, giant satellite dishes, emergency generators, and coils of
cables, and tents. Cameramen slept under satellite dishes. At the wall, West German
police and military was lined up to prevent chaos. West German military trucks were
lined up against the wall, to protect it from the West Germans. Hundreds of West
German police stood in rows with their tall shields. On top of the wall, lined up at
parade rest, stood East German soldiers with their rifles. Groups of West Germans
stood around fires that they had built. No one knew what was going on.
• Topic: Mother Teresa
Score: 0.3985
We were attending a private Mass for the families and Sisters who would take their
Final Vows, June 1995, in Washington, when