
tem in a preprocessing step can also be preferable over live web searches at QA run-
time. While web search engines typically must be used as black boxes, locally stored
sources can be indexed with open-source IR systems such as Indri1 or Lucene2, which
allow full control over the retrieval model and search results. These IR systems offer
richquerylanguages,supportingtermweights,proximityconstraints,fieldrestrictions
and approximate matching. Local sources can also be preprocessed and annotated
with syntactic and semantic information, which can be leveraged to formulate queries
that better describe the information need expressed in a question [Tiedemann, 2005,
Bilotti et al., 2007]. Furthermore, in applications where speed and availability mat-
ter, a live web search and subsequent retrieval of web pages may not be a viable
alternative. Live web searches may also be infeasible if the knowledge sources contain
1http://www.lemurproject.org/indri/
2http://lucene.apache.org/
1.2. APPROACH 3
confidential information (e.g. a company intranet) or restricted-domain knowledge
(e.g. instructions for products), or if a self-contained system is required (e.g. in ar-
eas with intermittent Internet access, or for the IBM Jeopardy! challenge). Local
sources further guarantee reproducible evaluation results, whereas the Web and the
algorithms and indices used by web search engines change constantly. Finally, local
sources can be consolidated e.g. by merging related content into a single document
and by removing noise.
Our source expansion method has many potential applications beyond QA. For
instance, the related content gathered through SE could be added to the representa-
tions of the documents in a seed corpus to improve retrieval accuracy of a traditional
document retrieval system. The expanded documents could also be leveraged by a re-
lation extraction algorithm to validate instances of relations found in the seed corpus
and to identify additional instances. Furthermore, a system for recognizing textual
entailment (RTE) could use paraphrases obtained through source expansion as addi-
tional evidence to determine whether a given statement is entailed by the information
in a text corpus. In this thesis, however, we focus on an intrinsic evaluation of dif-