 in Section 4.5 that the statistical source expansion approach increases
the semantic redundancy of a seed corpus, and that it also augments the corpus with
new information that was not already covered in the seeds. By semantic redundancy
we mean paraphrases that state the same information differently, making it more
accessible to a QA system. For instance, the same facts may be mentioned repeatedly
using different terminology, which increases the probability that at least one relevant
text passage closely matches the question and can be retrieved by a QA system. In
some cases the information is also made more explicit, e.g. by directly referring to an
entity instead of using a nominal or pronominal coreference. In addition, information
about related entities that was previously distributed over multiple text passages or
documents may be given in the same context within a much shorter text span. Thus
the expanded sources can provide additional links between entities, making it easier
for a QA system to find the answers to questions involving those entities.
This raises the question whether our method improves QA results by adding se-
mantically redundant information or by increasing the coverage of the seed corpus.
There is evidence that SE helps in both ways, but redundancy seems to play a more
important role in improving end-to-end QA performance. First of all, we found that
the relative gains in QA accuracy are larger than the gains in candidate recall, and
thus source expansion must improve answer scoring. In Table 6.18 we show the ratio
of accuracy over candidate recall before and after SE for the most effective configura-
tion of Watson that uses all manually acquired sources. This ratio is the percentage
of questions that are answered correctly in first place given that a correct candidate
answer was found. It can be seen that the ratio is larger with SE on all datasets, i.e.
answer scoring is more effective if evidence is retrieved from the expanded sources.
Since this analysis is based only on questions whose answers are covered in the cor-
pus, the improvement in answer scoring accuracy can only be explained by increased
redundancy. Furthermore, the collection of manually selected sources used as a base-
line includes the AQUAINT newswire corpus, which was the reference corpus in the
TREC 11 evaluation and has perfect coverage for the 444 questions with known an-
swersinTREC11. Thusthe7.6%gaininaccuracyonthisdatas