
a web page retrieved for the Wikipedia article on Abraham Lincoln assassination.
Topic terms are automatically highlighted in red so that relevant sections of the web
4.3. SCORING 41
Figure 4.2: Graphical interface for the annotation of relevant content, showing a web
page that is related to the topic “Abraham Lincoln assassination”. Topic terms are
highlighted in red, relevant text passages selected by the annotator in green.
page can be identified more quickly, and substrings that were selected as relevant
by the annotator are highlighted in green. Note that even though the interface only
requires the annotator to label relevant text, it implicitly assumes all other text to be
irrelevant. Thus the annotators were cautioned against missing any positive instances
since otherwise the data would contain false negatives.
4.3.2 Relevance Features
A dataset of text nuggets that was annotated following the above methodology and
that is described in Section 5.1 was used to fit a statistical model. We experimented
with various statistically or linguistically motivated features that estimate the top-
icality or textual quality of text nuggets and are thus predictive of their relevance.
In the following, we list each of the features along with its range (binary, discrete
or continuous), whether it is generated at the level of documents (and is thus the
42 CHAPTER 4. SOURCE EXPANSION APPROACH
same for all nuggets in a document) or at the level of individual nuggets, and a brief
description and intuitive motivation.
Topicality features:
• TopicRatioSeed (continuous, per nugget):
Likelihood ratio of a text nugget estimated with topic and background lan-
guage models. The topic language model is estimated from the content of the
seed document, the background model from a random sample of about 7,500
Wikipedia articles. We used a subset of Wikipedia to avoid excessive memory
consumption. Both language models are unigrams with Good-Turing discount-
ing [Good, 1953], a smoothing technique that assigns non-zero probabilities to
words that do not occur in the training data while decreasing the probabilities
of rare words that appear in the data. Nuggets with large likelihood ratios are
often thematically related to the seed document.
• TopicRatioNuggets (continuous, per nugget):
Similar to TopicRatioSeed