v0.6 shown in Figure 3.3. It also had the largest incremental impact on precision and
accuracyamongallalgorithmsthatwereaddedtoWatsoninthefinalyearsbeforethe
Jeopardy! competition. This is because the improvements through source expansion
are largely orthogonal to advancements in other QA algorithms, such as question
analysis, search, candidate answer extraction and answer scoring. Thus, even though
WatsonwasalreadyveryeffectiveatansweringJeopardy! questions, sourceexpansion
yielded substantial improvements because other system components benefited from
the additional relevant source content provided with this method. For this reason,
we believe that source expansion could also have a significant performance impact
on other QA systems, and on other natural language processing applications that
leverage textual source corpora.
34 CHAPTER 3. FUNDAMENTALS
Chapter 4
Source Expansion Approach
Theinputofthestatisticalsourceexpansion(SE)algorithmisatopic-orientedcorpus,
i.e. a collection of documents in which each document contains information about a
distinct topic. We refer to each of these documents as a seed document or simply seed,
andtotheentiredocumentcollectionastheseed corpus. Examplesofpre-existingseed
corpora that are suitable for this SE approach are encyclopedias (such as Wikipedia)
and dictionaries (such as Wiktionary). For each of the seed documents, a new pseudo-
documentisgeneratedthatcontainsrelatedinformationextractedfromlargeexternal
resources. By expanding the seeds, we gather additional relevant information about
their topics, as well as paraphrases of information that is contained in the seeds.
Our goal is to increase both the coverage and the semantic redundancy of the seed
corpus. By semantic redundancy we mean reformulations of existing information, as
opposed to lexically similar text or even duplicates that are of no additional benefit.
A question answering system can take advantage of both types of related content: it
can find answers that were previously not covered in the seeds, and it can retrieve
more relevant text for answer extraction and scoring. In Section 6.5 we take a closer
look at the relative contributions of coverage and redundancy.
Theseeddocumentsareexpandedinafour-stagepipeline, illustratedinFigure4.1
using the Wikipedia article about Tourette Syndrome as an example. For each