 spoken document retrieval (e.g. Singhal et al.
[1998], Johnson et al. [1999]), cross-lingual information retrieval (e.g. Darwish and
Oard [2002], Li and Meng [2003]), topic tracking (e.g. Levow and Oard [2002]), and
web search (e.g. Brin and Page [1998], Craswell et al. [2001]). In the following, we
2.3. DOCUMENT EXPANSION 11
present a sample of this work, distinguishing between techniques for collections of in-
dependent documents that do not explicitly reference one another (Section 2.3.1) and
methods that rely on citations or hyperlinks between the documents (Section 2.3.2).
We further discuss how the proposed statistical source expansion approach extends
this related work by providing applications such as QA with additional relevant con-
tent that cannot be found in the original corpus (Section 2.3.3).
2.3.1 Expansion of Independent Documents
Singhal et al. developed a document expansion approach that improves the perfor-
mance of a speech retrieval system [Singhal et al., 1998, Singhal and Pereira, 1999].
TheiralgorithmisevaluatedonadatasetfromtheSpokenDocumentRetrieval(SDR)
taskatTREC7[Garofoloetal.,1998]. Collectionsoftextdocumentsaregeneratedby
transcribing spoken news stories using automatic speech recognition (ASR), and the
documents are indexed and searched with a traditional vector space retrieval system.
However, since ASR is error-prone and frequently fails to recognize important content
words, document retrieval over automatic speech transcriptions is generally less effec-
tive than the retrieval of written or manually transcribed documents. To compensate
for recognition errors, the transcriptions are automatically expanded with terms ex-
tracted from other documents. Using the original transcription as a query, related
documents are retrieved from a corpus of newspaper articles that covers a similar
time period. Relevant terms are then extracted and added to the transcription and
the weights of existing terms are adjusted using Rocchio’s relevance feedback algo-
rithm [Rocchio, 1971]. To avoid adding noise to the transcription, the expansion can
optionally be restricted to terms that also appear in the word lattice generated by
the