, but the topic language model is estimated from the
text nuggets that were retrieved for the given topic, and the background model
fromalargesampleofnuggetsretrievedfordifferenttopics. Onaverage,nuggets
thatwereretrievedforthegivenseeddocumentcanbeexpectedtobemoretop-
ical than nuggets retrieved for other documents, and thus the likelihood ratio is
indeed a measure of topicality. This feature is more stable than TopicRatioSeed
for short seed documents.
• TFIDFSeed (continuous, per nugget):
Average tf-idf score of the word tokens in the text nugget. The term frequencies
(tf) are estimated from the seed, the inverse document frequencies (idf) from the
same sample of Wikipedia articles used for the TopicRatioSeed feature. Tokens
with high tf-idf scores are often central to the topic, and thus nuggets that
contain them are more likely to be topical.
• TFIDFNuggets (continuous, per nugget):
Similar to TFIDFSeed, but the tf scores are estimated from text nuggets that
were retrieved for the given topic, and the idf scores from a large sample of
nuggets retrieved for different topics. This feature is more stable than TFIDF-
Seed for short seed documents.
• CosineSim (continuous, per nugget):
Cosine similarity between word frequency vectors derived from the text nugget
and the seed. Stopwords are removed and the remaining tokens are stemmed.
This is a special case of the maximal marginal relevance (MMR) summarization
algorithm [Carbonell and Goldstein, 1998, Goldstein et al., 2000], using λ = 1
(i.e. the most relevant text nuggets are selected regardless of their novelty).
Additional details are given in Section 2.4. This method was originally used as
a single-strategy baseline for relevance estimation, but we later adopted it as
4.3. SCORING 43
an additional feature in our statistical models. Nuggets with large cosine scores
have a similar word distribution as the seed and are thus likely to be topical.
• QueryTerms (continuous, per nugget):
Fraction of the terms in the query used in the retrieval stage that occur in
the text nugget. Each term is