com/
3.3. PERFORMANCE METRICS 27
and thus reliable confidence estimation for candidate answers is of vital impor-
tance. Source expansion can provide additional supporting evidence for answer
scoring, which may improve the reliability of the confidence estimates and their
consistency across questions. However, the contestants must always answer the
Final Jeopardy! question, even if they have low confidence.
• The contestants in Jeopardy! must compete for the buzzer, i.e. the first player
to press a button gets to answer a question. Only if that player is wrong or
fails to answer within 5 seconds will the other contestants get their chance to
answer. Thus, in order to compete with strong human players, a QA system
must be capable of answering rapidly. Since the retrieval of relevant text for
candidate answer extraction and supporting evidence for answer scoring are
among the most expensive processing steps in a QA pipeline, and the efficiency
ofthesearchesisdirectlyrelatedtothesizeofthesources, itisessentialtoavoid
adding noise during source expansion. Of course, noise should also be removed
from the sources because it can affect the quality and relevance of the search
results. This is the primary objective of using statistical models for relevance
estimation (see Section 4.3).
3.3 Performance Metrics
When we evaluate the impact of SE on factoid QA performance in Chapter 6, we
report QA accuracy, the percentage of questions answered correctly by a system.
More formally, let n be the number of questions in a test set and c the number of
questions answered correctly by the top-ranked candidate returned by the system.
Then accuracy is defined as
c
Accuracy =.
n
Accuracy is also a common metric for evaluating classifiers, where classification ac-
curacy is defined as the percentage of instances that are assigned the correct label.
While QA accuracy is based on only the answers with the highest confidence,
the mean reciprocal rank (MRR) metric also gives partial credit to correct answers
at lower ranks. For each question q in a test set (i = 1,...,n) let r be the rank of
i i
the first correct answer in the list of candidates generated by a QA system for that
question, if one has been found. Then the MRR is computed as follows:
1 (cid