 promising candidates. The
final output is a list of answers ranked by confidence estimates.
Figure 3.1 illustrates this canonical architecture and shows how a question might
beprocessedbyatypicalimplementation. TheinputtotheQAsystemisthequestion
Which computer scientist invented the smiley? givenintextualform. Inthisexample,
the question analysis component determines that the question seeks an answer of the
1The discussions of question answering pipelines, the TREC QA task and performance metrics
were adapted from Schlaefer and Chu-Carroll [2012].
21
22 CHAPTER 3. FUNDAMENTALS
Question string “Which computer scientist
invented the smiley?”
Question
Analysis
Answer type: computer scientist
Analyzed question
Keywords: invented, smiley
Query Generation
“computer scientist” invented smiley
Queries
Candidate
Search Knowledge
search The two original text smileys
Sources
were invented on September
Search results 19, 1982 by Scott E. Fahlman
at Carnegie Mellon.
Candidate
Generation
• September 19, 1982
Candidate answers • Scott E. Fahlman
• Carnegie Mellon
Answer Supporting
Scoring evidence search Answer Score
Scott E. Fahlman 0.9
Scored answers
Carnegie Mellon 0.4
September 19, 1982 0.3
Figure 3.1: Canonical question answering architecture (left) and sample question
processed in the pipeline (right). This illustration was adopted from Schlaefer and
Chu-Carroll [2012].
type computer scientist, and it extracts the additional keywords invented and smiley.
The query generation component constructs a search engine query from the answer
type and the additional keywords. Given this query, the search component retrieves
passages from a text corpus (say, the Web), such as the one shown in the example. In
the candidate generation stage, entities are extracted as candidate answers. Finally,
an answer scoring component estimates a confidence score for each candidate, using
features such as the retrieval rank, the number of occurrences of a candidate in the
search results, and whether it matches the predicted answer type. The highest scoring
candidate, Scott E. Fahlman, is returned as the most probable answer. For additional
detailsonQApipelinesandalgorithmsthatarecommonlyusedineachofthep