ipeline
stages, we refer the reader to Schlaefer and Chu-Carroll [2012].
When applying source expansion to the question answering task, the knowledge
sources are augmented with additional information, which can be utilized both by
the search component and by the answer scoring component in a QA pipeline. Thus,
3.2. QUESTION ANSWERING TASKS 23
SE has the potential of improving both search performance and answer scoring per-
formance:
• The QA system may retrieve relevant content for additional questions from the
expanded sources, which directly improves search recall.
• Even if for a given question relevant text was already found in the original
sources, SE may help retrieve more relevant results at higher ranks. This facil-
itates the extraction of the correct answer from the search results. It may also
improve answer scoring performance if the frequencies of candidate answers in
the search results and their search ranks are used as features.
• Duringtheanswerscoringphase, someQAsystemsretrievesupportingevidence
for individual candidate answers from the knowledge sources. For instance, a
systemmayissueaqueryforeachcandidateconsistingofquestionkeywordsand
the candidate itself [Magnini et al., 2002, Ko et al., 2010, Ferrucci et al., 2010].
The search results are then compared to the question on a lexical, syntactic or
semantic level, and the candidate is scored according to the degree of similarity.
Expanded sources may yield additional supporting evidence and thus facilitate
answer scoring.
3.2 Question Answering Tasks
We evaluated our statistical source expansion approach on two question answering
tasks: (1) factoid questions from annual QA evaluations conducted by the Text RE-
trieval Conference (TREC), and (2) questions from the Jeopardy! TV game show. In
this section, we give an overview of these tasks and discuss differences that affect the
impact of SE.
3.2.1 Text REtrieval Conference (TREC)
The Text REtrieval Conference (TREC) conducted annual evaluations of English
question answering systems in the years 1999–2007 (TREC 8–16) [Dang et al., 2007].
This evaluation forum has been one of the major drivers of English QA research, and
thequestionsandcorrespondinganswerkeysproducedintheevaluations