acent, which includes features of adja-
cent nuggets to capture dependencies between nearby text. This is the best-
performing relevance model in Chapter 5.
When comparing different source expansion approaches, we built corpora of equal
size by adjusting the relevance threshold in the merging phase of the SE system
(Section 4.4) to ensure comparable results.
All seed corpora and expanded sources were indexed and searched with Indri. We
did not use Lucene because OpenEphyra currently does not provide an interface for
this retrieval system, and the contribution of the Lucene searches to overall search
recall in experiments with Watson is relatively small. Queries consisting of keywords
and phrases were generated with OpenEphyra’s question analysis component. Again
we used two complementary search strategies:
1. We searched for passages comprising 50 tokens and aligned them with sentence
boundaries in two steps: first we cut off sentences that did not contain any ques-
tion terms, then we extended the remaining text to the nearest boundaries. The
passage length was optimized to achieve high search recall for TREC questions
when using only the seed corpora without expansion. Interestingly, we found
it more effective to use longer passages than Watson (with 50 instead of 20 to-
kens), even if the number of search results is reduced accordingly and the same
total amount of text is retrieved. This may be because we tuned the passage
length using smaller sources, which are less likely to contain the question terms
and answers in close proximity to one another. Note that the retrieval of fixed
length token windows is not ideal for the expanded pseudo-documents because
the windows are not necessarily aligned with nugget boundaries but can span
several independent text nuggets. This was unavoidable to enable comparisons
between expanded sources and baseline corpora without nugget annotations,
and in experiments with Watson it did not affect search results much because
the retrieved passages rarely covered more than one nugget. However, the neg-
ative effect of passages crossing nugget boundaries was more noticeable when
retrieving longer passages using OpenEphyra. We tried reducing the passage
length to 20 tokens and found that the impact of SE increased, but search recall
with and without SE was lower even if longer hit lists were used.
2. We retrieved documents and extracted the titles as search results. Again, these
searches are most useful for questions that provide a definition of