 an entity
6.3. SEARCH EXPERIMENTS 89
Question What is the average body temperature?
(TREC) (Answer: 98.6 ◦F)
Query 1 #combine[passage50:25](average body temperature
(Indri Passage) #1(body temperature))
Query 2 #combine(average body temperature #1(body temperature))
(Indri Document)
Question What is the nickname for the national New Zealand
(TREC) basketball team?
(Answer: Tall Blacks)
Query 1 #combine[passage50:25](nickname national New Zealand
(Indri Passage) #1(New Zealand) basketball team #1(basketball team))
Query 2 #combine(nickname national New Zealand
(Indri Document) #1(New Zealand) basketball team #1(basketball team))
Table 6.10: Examples of queries generated by OpenEphyra.
and ask for its name, such as What is the study of ants called? (TREC 12,
Question 2086, Answer: myrmecology).
Table 6.10 gives examples of Indri passage queries and document queries gener-
ated for TREC questions by OpenEphyra. The first question contains the compound
noun body temperature, which is recognized through lookups in WordNet [Fellbaum,
1998] and search results that contain it as an exact phrase are given higher weights.
In the second example, the country name New Zealand is detected by a named entity
recognizer for locations (though it could also be found in WordNet) and is added as
a phrase to the Indri queries. OpenEphyra also supports query expansion using syn-
onyms and other relations in WordNet, but the algorithm was disabled in our experi-
ments because it does not consistently improve search results. In contrast to Watson,
OpenEphyra does not use any proximity operators other than exact phrases and it
does not assign weights to the query terms, though named entities and compound
nouns are given more weight by including them both as a phrase and as individual
keywords in the query. The passage queries are identical to those used for document
searches, except that the operator “#combine[passage50:25](...)” is used to retrieve
fixed-size windows of 50 tokens, evaluated at increments of 25 tokens.
While