 Mother Teresa spotted this little baby
in the crowd and took her into her arms, blessing her and singing a lullaby.
The first text nugget is a personal account of the fall of the Berlin Wall. It consists
of well-formed English text and contains many key terms that are associated with the
topic, but most of the information is too specific to be useful for source expansion.
The second nugget describes an encounter with Mother Teresa that was important to
the narrator, but that is arguably not a key event in Mother Teresa’s life. Unfortu-
nately it is difficult to automatically distinguish such nuggets from more informative
text. If some of the facts in a nugget are not mentioned in the seed document, it may
be that they are too specific or they could in fact be useful additions to the seed.
Human annotators can decide on their importance using common sense and general
knowledge, but the SE system relies on redundancy to determine which text nuggets
are most relevant. If a nugget shares a sufficient number of key terms with the seed
document or other retrieved text, it is likely to be included in the expanded sources
even if it contains unimportant details about the topic. However, these particular ex-
amples of false positives might be avoided by adding a feature that indicates whether
a text nugget contains first person pronouns. This feature could penalize quotes and
narratives that are often overly detailed.
Finally, in spite of all the surface features that are designed to evaluate the textual
quality of text nuggets, sometimes a malformed nugget is ranked high just because it
closely mirrors the word distribution in the seed. For example, the following nugget
has a relatively high confidence score even though it is nonsensical because it contains
many terms that are associated with the topic:
• Topic: Mother Teresa
Score: 0.5562
apologetic s biography calcutta catechism catholic catholic church catholic reading
catholicteachingcatholictodaycatholicismcharitycharlescurranchristianinspiratio
nalchristianlivingchristianitydarknightofthesouldeusencouragementfaithhope
70 CHAPTER 5. INTRINSIC EVALUATION
indiainspirationinspirationaljesusleadershiplovemoralsmysticismnonfictionpeace
philosophy poor pope pope bened