havebecome
standard test collections. Initially, TREC focused on factoid questions, but in later
yearslist, definitionalandrelationshipquestionswereaddedtotheevaluations. While
earlier test sets (TREC 8–12) consisted of independent and self-contained questions,
in more recent evaluations (TREC 13–16) questions were grouped into series with
a common topic and contained coreferences to the topic, preceding questions and
answers to those questions. Table 3.1 illustrates common types of independent TREC
questions, and Table 3.2 gives an example of a question series with coreferences. Note
that in the question series, the noun phrases the 1999 Game and the game refer to
the topic 1999 Baseball All-Star Game, and the noun phrase the ballpark in What is
the seating capacity of the ballpark? refers to the answer of the previous question.
24 CHAPTER 3. FUNDAMENTALS
Type Sample Questions
Factoid Who was the first American in space?
(TREC 8, Question 21)
Where is the Valley of the Kings?
(TREC 9, Question 249)
List Name 20 countries that produce coffee.
(TREC 10 list task, Question 1)
Definitional Who is Aaron Copland?
(TREC 12 main task, Question 1901)
What is a golden parachute?
(TREC 12 main task, Question 1905)
Table 3.1: Independent factoid, list and definitional questions in TREC.
Type Question
Factoid In what city was the 1999 All-Star Game held?
Factoid In what city was the 1999 Game originally scheduled?
List List the official sponsors of the game.
Factoid What is the name of the ballpark where the game was played?
Factoid What is the seating capacity of the ballpark?
Factoid What was the date of the 1999 All-Star Game?
Factoid Who was the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the game?
Table 3.2: Question series about the TREC topic 1999 Baseball All-Star Game
(TREC 15, Target 161).
In TREC evaluations, participating systems were required to retrieve answers
from reference corpora including collections of newspaper articles and a large crawl
of blog websites. The systems further had to support each answer with a document
from these sources that contains the answer and justifies it. Thus, even though the
