 in relevant documents.
This is often the case for sparse queries containing few useful keywords, and short
documents that have low coverage and redundancy. However, these techniques are
less suitable for enhancing the search results with additional content that can be
3Recently replaced by CiteSeerX: http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/
16 CHAPTER 2. RELATED WORK
leveraged by another application. For instance, individual terms and phrases that
are added to the documents are of limited use to a question answering system for
answer extraction or as supporting evidence for answer validation since their context
is not preserved. Also, many of the discussed algorithms expand documents with
related terms found in the same collection, rather than adding content from external
sources that is not already included in the collection. Similarly to query expansion
and pseudo-relevance feedback, document expansion techniques are unlikely to help
if the relevant information sought by a QA system is missing in the corpus (failure
type 1 in Section 1.1).
Likedocumentexpansion, ourstatisticalsourceexpansionapproachalsoaddresses
vocabularymismatchesbetweenqueriesandrelevantcontentinadocumentcollection.
By augmenting sources with reformulations of existing information, source expansion
increases the likelihood that at least some relevant text closely resembles the query
andcanberetrieved. Similarlytothedocumentexpansiontechniquesforindependent
documents in Section 2.3.1, our method does not rely on explicit references between
related documents. Source expansion is different from the above techniques in that
it also adds large amounts of useful content to a seed corpus. In our experiments,
local corpora are expanded several-fold with related text passages from much larger
auxiliarycollections,suchastheWeb. Asaresult,sourceexpansionnotonlyimproves
document rankings but it also increases the amount of relevant content in the search
results. Semanticredundancyintheretrievedtextfacilitatestheextractionofrelevant
information and the validation of this information by a QA system. In addition to
increasing redundancy, the proposed method adds new information that was not
present in the original sources and could therefore not be found even with perfect
retrieval. In other words, if the answer to a question is not in the original corpus,
source expansion may add it to the sources, but document expansion techniques are
unlikely