anddeliveringcomprehensivenext-generationnetworksolutionsto
both service providers and enterprise customers. With our global reach, scale and expertise, Nortel and
IBM can help customers reduce costs, increase productivity, and transform their IT and communications.
The alliance focuses on collaborative innovation that leverages IBM services and technology capabilities
with Nortels experience and leadership in communications infrastructure and solutions....</NUGGET>
...
</TEXT>
</DOC>
Figure 4.4: Expanded document about IBM.
Chapter 5
Intrinsic Evaluation
In this chapter we evaluate and compare various relevance estimation strategies that
can be deployed in a source expansion system to rank text nuggets by their relevance
to the topics of seed documents. In Section 5.1 we introduce a high-quality dataset
that was annotated manually and that is used to fit and evaluate statistical relevance
models. Section 5.2 gives an overview of different statistical models and baselines for
relevance estimation and describes the experimental setup for an intrinsic evaluation
of these strategies. In Section 5.3 we evaluate how each strategy performs under ideal
conditions, using the high-quality annotated dataset, and in Section 5.4 we examine
how different methods are affected by noise. Finally, we take a closer look at current
limitations of our relevance estimation approach and areas for further improvements
in Section 5.5.
5.1 Dataset
Alargedatasetofmanuallyannotatedwebpageswascreatedtoevaluateandcompare
different strategies for estimating the relevance of text nuggets. For a sample of 15
Wikipedia articles about people, things and events, we fetched up to 100 related web
pages each, using the retrieval component of the SE system described in Section 4.1.
The web pages were shown to human annotators, who were instructed to identify
substrings that are relevant with regard to the topics of the seed articles. The an-
notation task was supported by a graphical interface that was developed specifically
for this purpose. Each of the 15 topics was assigned to one of three annotators (A,
B, or C). Detailed annotation guidelines were provided in the form of a checklist to
aid the annotators in making consistent decisions about the relevance of substrings
in the web pages. Text nuggets were automatically labeled as relevant if any of their
tokens were selected by an annotator. This approach for