, structural markup is used to determine the boundaries.
38 CHAPTER 4. SOURCE EXPANSION APPROACH
The text nuggets are then converted to plain text by removing remaining markup
and embedded source code. Typical text nuggets are HTML paragraphs, list items or
table cells. They range in length from short sentence fragments (e.g. born in 1968) to
narratives of multiple sentences. Examples can be seen in the expanded documents
at the end of Section 4.5.
Since in the merging stage individual text nuggets are selected and added to the
pseudo-document, the nuggets should ideally be self-contained and either entirely
relevant or entirely irrelevant. To be self-contained, a nugget must not contain refer-
ences to entities that are not defined within the nugget, such as pronouns or nominals
referring to preceding text. This condition is mostly met by nuggets that are delim-
ited by structural markup, since these nuggets tend to be long and can span multiple
related sentences. However, long nuggets are often only partially relevant with regard
to a given topic, which motivates the use of smaller sized nuggets. Thus we further
split the nuggets into sentences and experiment with both markup-based nuggets and
sentence-level nuggets. In Chapter 5, we present evaluation results for both nugget
granularities and show that markup-based nuggets are generally preferable over indi-
vidual sentences.
4.3 Scoring
The core component of our source expansion approach is a statistical model that
scores the extracted text nuggets based on their relevance to the topic of the seed
document. For instance, if the seed is an article about Barack Obama’s inauguration,
the goal is to assign higher relevance scores to text nuggets that precisely match
this topic than to nuggets about inaugurations or Barack Obama in general, or text
nuggets about completely unrelated topics and uninformative text such as ads and
spam. In the following, we describe our methodology for annotating training and test
data for this relevance estimation task (Section 4.3.1). We also discuss features that
are predictive of the relevance of text nuggets (Section 4.3.2) and linear models for
relevance estimation based on these features (Section 4.3.3). Sequential models that
take the context of text nuggets