 her order, this “I
Thirst” letter is certain to become a source of spiritual light and encouragement,
drawing innumerable hearts and souls closer to God.
68 CHAPTER 5. INTRINSIC EVALUATION
Both text nuggets are of high textual quality and contain multiple direct references
to their topics Berlin Wall and Mother Teresa. The first nugget also was extracted
from a document that ranked relatively high (15th) in the Yahoo! hit list when us-
ing the topic as a query. In addition, both nuggets contain terms that are clearly
associated with their topics, and thus topicality features such as cosine similarities,
tf-idf scores and topic likelihood ratios have high values. For instance, the first nugget
mentions the terms Freedom, historic, American, East Germans, tear down, symbol
and Cold War, which all appear in the seed document. The second nugget also has
several terms in common with its seed, including spiritual, lifetime, prayer, Mission-
aries of Charity, letter, Holy, order and God. Because the current set of topicality
featuresmostlyreliesontermfrequenciesintheseeddocumentandretrievedtext, the
relevance model cannot distinguish between these nuggets and text that contains use-
ful information. A deeper semantic analysis may reveal that neither of the examples
provides much relevant content beyond mentioning the topic and related terms. How-
ever, compared to the statistical features used in the current model, deeper natural
language processing may be brittle and computationally intensive.
Another limitation of the current relevance model is that it cannot distinguish
between factual information and subjective accounts or opinions. For example, these
text nuggets were ranked high even though they clearly state opinions rather than
generally accepted facts:
• Topic: Iran-Iraq War
Score: 0.7166
ItisunderstandablethatWesterngovernmentsshouldfeeluneasyandprefertowater
downtheirinvolvementwiththeIraqiregimeduringtheIran-Iraqwar. Afterall, who
can argue that Iranian pride doesn’t stand to gain the most from the failure of the
Iraqi(US andUK)invasionof Iran? Theentire strategyhas alwaysbeen thatIranian
pride should never be allowed to flourish...
• Topic: Anne Frank
Score: 0.7713
The