 its pronunciation
and translations to other languages. On the Final Jeopardy! and TREC datasets, the
approach performs worse than search engine rankings, which do not depend on the
content of the seeds since we only used the seed document titles as queries.
The relevance model LR Adjacentconsistently outperforms all baselines, including
Cosine Sim, independently of the seed corpora and test set. The gains over Cosine
Sim are quite small when expanding Wikipedia, but very noticeable for Wiktionary.
The reason for the larger performance difference in the experiments with Wiktionary
is that the statistical model does not only rely on the seeds when scoring related
text but it also uses a variety of other features. Some of these features leverage the
search ranking and metadata from the search engine, others are based on surface
characteristics of the retrieved text. Thus, even if the seed documents are short or
have low quality, the model still works relatively well. The downside of the statistical
approach is that its implementation is more complex and labeled training data is
needed to fit the model. Based on these findings, we recommend using a statistical
model if enough data can be annotated. Otherwise, the baseline Cosine Sim can be
a reasonable alternative, but one should keep in mind that this method does require
high-quality seeds to be effective. These conclusions are consistent with the results
of experiments using artificially degraded seed documents in Section 5.4.
6.3.3 Experimental Setup using OpenEphyra
We also evaluated the impact of source expansion on the search performance of the
open-source QA system OpenEphyra8. The following text corpora were used in these
search experiments:
8http://sourceforge.net/projects/openephyra/
88 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
1. Seed corpora without source expansion (Wikipedia, Wiktionary, and the com-
bination Wikipedia + Wiktionary).
2. Seed corpora expanded using search rankings generated by the Yahoo! search
engine (Search Rank SE). This is the most effective relevance ranking strategy
in Chapter 5 that does not rely on the seed documents to model topicality.
3. Seed corpora expanded with a statistical relevance model that leverages the
content of the seeds to estimate the relevance of related text nuggets (Statis-
tical SE). We used the model LR Adj