 TopicRatioSeed, TFIDFSeed
and CosineSim, less effective. In Section 5.4 we confirmed that relevance estimation
performance drops if less seed content is available. Web queries for common dictio-
nary terms yield more noise, which we alleviated by adding the keyword “define” to
3http://www.wikipedia.org/
4http://www.wiktionary.org/
76 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
all queries and dropping search results that did not contain the topic in their title or
URL. The web pages retrieved with this modified search approach are mostly online
dictionary entries that provide additional definitions of the seed topic.
OursnapshotsofWikipediaandWiktionarycontainabout3.5millionand600,000
documents, respectively. These collections only include English documents, and en-
tries in Wiktionary were merged if they represented alternative spellings of the same
term and cross-referenced one another. To reduce computational costs and to avoid
adding noise, we focused on expanding seeds that we deemed most relevant for Jeop-
ardy! and TREC. The questions in both QA tasks are often about topics of common
interest, such as famous people or well-known events, and thus SE should be prior-
itized to cover the most popular seeds first. Popular topics also typically have high
coverage on the Web, and thus we can retrieve large amounts of relevant content
through web searches when expanding these topics. The measure of popularity was
defined differently for each source based on our intuition and practical considera-
tions. For Wikipedia, in which rich hyperlink information is available, we defined the
popularity of an article as the number of references from other articles. Since Wik-
tionary contains only sparse hyperlink information, we estimated the popularity of a
Wiktionary entry as its frequency in a large collection of English documents across a
variety of topics and genre.
We sorted the seeds by popularity in descending order and plotted the number
of seeds versus the number of those seeds that are relevant for the two QA tasks.
A seed was considered relevant if its title was the answer to a TREC or Jeopardy!
question. This is an approximation of relevance based on the potential impact of a
seed if only document titles are retrieved. For the Jeopardy! challenge, we used