 describes
Iraq’s navy during the Iran-Iraq War, which again is arguably an important aspect
of the topic but it is only covered superficially in the seed. The final nugget mentions
that Mother Teresa received an honorary Ph.D. from Cambridge, which also seems
relevant,buttheWikipediaseedarticleonlymentionsinpassingthatshewasawarded
honorary degrees and it uses different terminology (“Universities in both the West
and in India granted her honorary degrees.”). In addition, the last nugget contains
a coreference to the topic instead of mentioning it directly, which further hurts its
topicality estimates.
5.5. ERROR ANALYSIS 71
The tendency to focus on aspects of the topic that are already well covered in
the seed document is a weakness of the current approach for selecting relevant con-
tent. The source expansion system often expands on information that is in the seed
corpus, but it is less likely to include information about aspects of a topic that are
not mentioned at all. However, we believe that the SE approach can be extended to
select more new information and to further improve its effectiveness for low-quality
or outdated seeds. For example, one could augment the document representations of
the seeds with content from similar documents in the seed corpus and high-scoring re-
latedtextnuggets. Theextendeddocumentrepresentationscouldbeusedtocompute
topicality features such as likelihood ratios and maximal marginal relevance. Query
expansion techniques and latent semantic analysis could alleviate vocabulary mis-
matches between text nuggets and seed content. We further discuss these extensions
as possible directions for future research at the end of Chapter 9.
We also observed that the statistical model is biased against short text nuggets,
particularly ones that do not contain an explicit reference to the topic. The following
nuggets were both ranked low even though they provide useful information:
• Topic: Anne Frank
Score: 0.0508
Emigrates from Frankfurt/Main to Amsterdam
• Topic: Abraham Lincoln assassination
Score: 0.0285
Michael O’Laughlin, a Lincoln consipirator, manacled
The second text nugget also contains a typo (“consipirator”) which affects the values
of topicality features that compare its word distribution to the seed document. It is