
the other nuggets, but within each of the two groups the original order of the search
results is preserved. This ranking is effective because third person pronouns mostly
appear in well-formed English text and are often references to the topic of interest.
On the other hand, most of the surface features, such as the character ratios and the
average length of the tokens in a nugget, are not useful on their own. These features
have MAP scores of around 30% or less, which is similar to the average performance
of random rankings (28.48% MAP). However, we found that the surface features are
still useful in conjunction with topicality and search features in a statistical model.
Figures5.2and5.3alsoshowthatthefeaturesofthepreviousandnextnuggetcan
sometimes be good relevance indicators. In particular, text nuggets are often relevant
if adjacent nuggets have large topicality feature values, or if the adjacent text has
many tokens in common with the search abstract (i.e. large SearchAbstractCoverage).
Of course the features of adjacent instances can be highly correlated with the fea-
tures of the text nugget that is being ranked, but they still provide additional useful
information. Otherwise the logistic regression model that includes adjacent features
(LR Adjacent) would not outperform the model that is based only on features of the
current nugget (LR Independent).
We have seen that the Cosine Sim baseline is equivalent to using the maximal
marginal relevance (MMR) summarization algorithm with 位 = 1. The parameter 位
controlsthetradeoffbetweenrelevantandnovelinformationinthegeneratedrankings
of text nuggets. If 位 is close to 1 the algorithm selects relevant text nuggets even if
they contain redundant information, and if 位 is close to 0 a diverse sample of text is
selectedregardlessofitsrelevance. InFigure5.4weillustratetherankingperformance
5.3. RESULTS AND COMPARISON 61
80%
70% Previous Current Next
60%
50%
P
A40%
M
30%
20%
10%
0%
Figure 5.2: MAP of individual features on sentence-length text nuggets. We ranked
nuggets by feature values in descending (+) or ascending (-) order. For nugget