 to help. Finally, source expansion is not only helpful for applications that use
an information retrieval system to search the text collections, but the added content
can also be leveraged directly for information extraction without performing a search.
Forinstance, arelationextractionalgorithmcouldbenefitfromtheincreasedcoverage
and semantic redundancy of an expanded text corpus.
While the previously described document expansion algorithms add words or
phrases to existing documents, our method processes source corpora as a whole and
generates new sources that can be indexed and searched independently. The proposed
approach encompasses techniques for identifying topics in a text corpus and selecting
relevanttopicsforwhichnewpseudo-documentsaregenerated. Itcanevenbeapplied
to unstructured sources that are not divided into documents about distinct topics.
For these reasons, we refer to this new method as source expansion as opposed to
document expansion throughout the thesis.
2.4 Maximal Marginal Relevance
The maximal marginal relevance (MMR) algorithm is an intuitive and effective ap-
proach for single- and multi-document summarization that was introduced in its most
2.4. MAXIMAL MARGINAL RELEVANCE 17
basic form by Carbonell and Goldstein [1998] and later extended with additional fea-
tures by Goldstein et al. [2000]. Given a query string that describes an information
need and a set of candidate text passages, the algorithm iteratively selects passages
thatarerelevanttothequerywhileavoidingredundantinformation. Weadoptavari-
ation of the MMR algorithm as a baseline for estimating the relevance of text nuggets
in the relevance ranking step of the source expansion system (Sections 5.2–5.4), and
we also derive a feature for our statistical relevance models from this method.
A summary is generated by incrementally selecting text passages that maximize
a measure of relevant novelty. Carbonell and Goldstein applied the MMR algorithm
to sentences, but one can also use other units of text. We will show that for source
expansionitisgenerallymoreeffectivetoranklonger,paragraph-lengthtextpassages.
In each step, the algorithm selects a passage that is similar to the query and thus
likely to be relevant, but at the same time dissimilar from previously selected passages
and therefore likely to contain novel information. More formally, let Q be the query,
R the