 In the TREC evaluations, the participants were given a reference corpus that
contained the answers to most of the questions. If the answer was not in this
corpus, the QA systems were expected to detect this and return no answer.
For the Jeopardy! challenge, there is no requirement to find the answers in a
particular information source. Any text corpora that contain useful information
can be used as sources of candidate answers, with the only restriction that the
QAsystemmustbeself-containedandcannotconsultexternalresourcessuchas
the Web during a Jeopardy! match. Therefore, in order to achieve competitive
performance, it is essential to develop an approach for identifying and acquiring
relevant source content ahead of time. This can be a manual source acquisition
methodology or an automated process such as statistical source expansion.
• Jeopardy! questions usually test general knowledge, and therefore the answers
can be found in or deduced from sources such as encyclopedias (e.g. Wikipedia)
anddictionaries(e.g. Wiktionary). Thesesourcesareidealforautomaticsource
expansion since each document is about a known, distinct topic that is specified
by an unambiguous title. On the other hand, TREC questions sometimes seek
very specific information that can only be found in a given reference corpus.
The sources used in TREC mainly consist of newspaper articles, whose topics
are often not distinct and may be unknown.
• Compared to TREC questions, Jeopardy! clues are often more complex and
much longer, containing non-vital information that may be intended as a hint
for the contestants, or to entertain or educate the audience. As a consequence,
queries generated from Jeopardy! clues generally contain more key terms and
are more constrained than TREC queries. Thus they match fewer text passages
and large, redundant sources may be required to achieve high search recall. At
the same time, more constrained queries are usually less sensitive to noise that
may be introduced through automatic source expansion in addition to relevant
information. This makes the Jeopardy! task an ideal test case for the source
expansion approach.
• Jeopardy! contestants can choose not to answer a question in the regular Jeop-
ardy! rounds if they do not know the answer or are not sufficiently confident,
3http://www.j-archive.