 account the quality of the ranking at different cutoff points
(see Section 3.3 for a definition of MAP).
Both MMR and source expansion are extraction-based methods, i.e. they com-
pile documents from existing text passages (e.g. sentences or paragraphs) instead of
generating new text. The two approaches also have in common that they use domain-
independent techniques and focus on statistical processing rather than natural lan-
guage understanding. The MMR algorithm and the relevance estimation component
in our SE system also use similar amounts of related content and are designed to
achieve similar compression ratios. Goldstein et al. [2000] report that they condensed
200 newswire articles down to 0.3% of their original length measured in characters.
We typically apply our relevance models to about 100 web pages per seed topic and,
depending on the length of the seed, reduce their size to about 0.1–0.6%.
The efficiency of the MMR algorithm depends on the choice of the parameter λ.
If only the relevance component is used (i.e. λ = 1) then the computation time is
linear in the number of text nuggets since each text nugget is compared to the query
only once. In practice, it takes less than 1 second per seed document to rank the text
nuggets by relevance in this special case. However, if the novelty of text nuggets is
taken into account (i.e. λ < 1) then nuggets must be selected incrementally based on
2.5. SEQUENTIAL MODELS FOR TEXT SEGMENTATION 19
their similarity to the previously selected nuggets. Consequently, each nugget must
be compared to all other nuggets, and the runtime is quadratic in the number of
nuggets. We found that it takes about 1–6 minutes to rank the text nuggets for a
single seed topic in this general case. As a comparison, all other features used in our
statistical relevance models can be computed in less than 2 seconds. The experiments
were run on a server with a 3 GHz Xeon CPU and 32 GB RAM.
When using a parameter value of λ = 1, the MMR algorithm simply ranks the
text passages by their cosine similarity to a given query. This special case provides a
strongbaselineforrelevanceestimationthatoutperformsothersingle-methodranking
strategies by a