 statistical model was trained on text nuggets retrieved
for Wikipedia seeds, and because the topicality features used in the model are more
effective for longer seeds.
The performance on TREC 8–12 is higher than on TREC 13–15, which was to be
expected because the factoid questions in more recent datasets are generally harder
and sometimes require more sophisticated reasoning than earlier questions. In addi-
tion, the question series in recent evaluations contain coreferences, which were not
always resolved accurately (see Section 6.1.2). Search performance is particularly low
on TREC 13–15 if passages or titles are retrieved from Wiktionary. This is also not
surprisingsincethequestionseriesfrequentlyaskaboutnamedentitiessuchaspeople,
organizations and events, which are often not dictionary entries. On the other hand,
older TREC questions such as What is the fear of lightning called? (TREC 11, Ques-
tion1448, Answer: astraphobia)orWhat name is given to the science of map-making?
(TREC 11, Question 1580, Answer: cartography) are covered in Wiktionary.
Compared to the results for Watson on TREC 8–12 in Section 6.3.2, the search
recall in experiments with OpenEphyra with and without source expansion is much
lower. Watson generates more effective Indri queries that include term weights, vari-
ous types of proximity operators and synonyms, whereas OpenEphyra’s queries con-
sist only of unweighted keywords and phrases. Also, OpenEphyra sometimes includes
irrelevant question terms in the queries, and the algorithm for extracting phrases
based on named entity recognizers and dictionary lookups has comparatively low pre-
cision and recall. Moreover, Watson uses a combination of Indri and Lucene searches,
and it performs multiple searches against different subsets of its sources. This mix
of retrieval systems and search strategies yields higher recall than the single-strategy
approach used in the experiments with OpenEphyra. In addition, there are a number
6.3. SEARCH EXPERIMENTS 91
llA
51–31
CERT
21–8
CERT
secruoS
01@seltiT
02@segassaP
01@seltiT
02@segassaP
