illerbeck and Zobel [2005] compare the efficiency and effectiveness of document
expansionandqueryexpansionusingpseudo-relevancefeedback. Theexperimentsare
based on topic sets and newswire corpora from TREC evaluations. Two alternative
methods for document expansion are evaluated:
• Eachdocumentinthecollectionisusedasaquerytoretrievesimilardocuments,
related terms are extracted from the retrieved documents, and the original doc-
umentisaugmentedwiththeseterms. Thisapproachissimilartotheexpansion
algorithms used by Singhal et al. [1998, 1999], Darwish and Oard [2002], Li and
Meng [2003] and Levow and Oard [2002], but the implementation details vary.
• Each term in the vocabulary is expanded with related terms using pseudo-
relevance feedback, the expanded query is used to rank the documents in the
collection, and the original term is added to the highest ranking documents.
This technique is intended to augment documents that are related to a given
term with that term if it is not already present in the documents.
The authors observe that query expansion with pseudo-relevance feedback can be
computationally intensive at retrieval time, whereas both document expansion meth-
ods are performed at indexing time with little computational overhead during re-
trieval. However, they also found that their document expansion approaches often
do not improve retrieval effectiveness significantly, whereas query expansion yields
more consistent gains in their experiments. These results clearly do not confirm the
previously discussed observations based on SDR, CLIR and TDT datasets, where
document expansion yielded consistent and substantial gains. It is possible that the
expansion techniques evaluated by Billerbeck and Zobel are less effective, or the im-
pact of document expansion may depend on the dataset.
Zhang et al. [2002] observe that queries often describe a topic in general terms,
whereas relevant documents use more specific terminology. For instance, a query may
contain the concept computer while a document in the corpus specifically mentions
subtypes such as server, PC or laptop. In this scenario, query expansion by adding
more specific concepts may be ineffective if the query terms have too many irrelevant
hyponyms. As a more viable alternative, the authors propose a document expansion
algorithm that replaces terms in the corpus with more general concepts. At retrieval