 already occur in the original source. As seed topics, one could use entities that
participate in relations for which the system currently has low precision or recall. Re-
lated content may be extracted from web search results, crawls of relevant websites,
or domain-specific local sources.
Similarly, source expansion may improve the performance of algorithms for ex-
tracting surface patterns that express a given semantic relationship between entities
from a text corpus [Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002, Pantel and Pennacchiotti, 2006].
For instance, the patterns “PERSON (DATE –” and “PERSON was born on DATE”
both relate people to their dates of birth but have very different surface forms. The
learned patterns can be used for relation extraction or to measure the semantic simi-
laritybetweentextpassages. InQAsystems,thepatternscouldbeappliedtogenerate
candidate answers and to score candidates by comparing their supporting passages to
the question. The effectiveness of a pattern learning algorithm may be improved by
expanding the source corpus with additional relevant text. The new content must be
related to the information in the original source in order to contain instances of the
same entities and patterns, and it should be of high textual quality. The statistical
relevance models used in the SE approach are ideal for identifying text that meets
thesetwocriteriabecausetheycombinetopicalityfeaturesthatmeasurethesimilarity
of related text to seed content with surface features to select only well-formed text.
If patterns are learned for a QA system, the same seed corpora and expanded sources
can be used to extract the patterns and to answer questions. This would help ensure
that the patterns frequently occur in the QA search results and that they express the
relationships they are intended for.
Bibliography
A. Agresti. Categorical Data Analysis. Wiley, 2002.
D. Ahn, V. Jijkoun, G. Mishne, K. Mu¨ller, M. de Rijke, and S. Schlobach. Using
Wikipedia at the TREC QA track. In Proceedings of the Thirteenth Text REtrieval
Conference, 2004.
H. Akaike. A new look at the statistical model identification. IEEE Transactions on
Aut