Note that we compute the cosine similarity between text nuggets and the whole
seed document, which is equivalent to using the entire seed as a query in the MMR
algorithm. In preliminary experiments we also attempted using shorter queries and
found that this hurt relevance ranking performance considerably. For instance, if only
the seed document title is used as a query, MAP drops from 61.46% to 34.85% when
ranking sentence-length nuggets and from 74.75% to 37.44% when using markup-
based nuggets. This again shows how important it is to fully leverage the seed content
for relevance estimation.
5.4. ROBUSTNESS OF RELEVANCE ESTIMATION 63
Initially we used cosine similarities only as a baseline for ranking text nuggets,
but seeing how effective this approach is for relevance estimation, we adopted it as an
additional feature in the logistic regression models. The new cosine similarity feature
improved MAP of the best-performing model LR Adjacent by 3.45 percentage points
on sentence-length nuggets and by 2.47 percentage points on markup nuggets. The
evaluationresultsshowninTable5.4andFigure5.1alreadyreflecttheimprovements.
This illustrates the flexibility of the statistical approach for relevance estimation. Any
newmethodthatestimatesrelevancedifferently, orthatusesadditionalresources(e.g.
externaltextcorporaorontologies), caneasilybeincorporatedintoastatisticalmodel
as a new feature. The extended model will, in all likelihood, be more effective than a
single-strategy approach that uses the same method individually.
5.4 Robustness of Relevance Estimation
We have seen that it is possible to label training data for the relevance estimation
task with high inter-annotator agreement, and that this data can be used to fit ef-
fective relevance models. But what if lower quality data is used, either because the
annotation guidelines were not strictly followed, or because more ambiguous text was
labeled? To answer this question, we artificially added label noise to our dataset and
evaluatedtherobustnessoflogisticregressionmodelsinthepresenceofnoise. Inthese
experiments,thebest-performingapproachLR Adjacentwasappliedtomarkup-based
nuggets. We performed a series of cross-validations