 this space with irrelevant text, the web pages in the crawl were
ranked using spam probabilities estimated by Cormack et al. [2011] and the pages
that are least likely to be spam were processed first. This approach is specific to web
crawls, but one could also prioritize the extraction of text nuggets using a simple and
efficient relevance model that is based only on surface features, or if a smaller source
is used it may not be necessary at all to preselect content.
Oftentheextractedtextnuggetsmentionmorethanoneoftheselectedtopics, and
thus they are added to the pseudo-documents for multiple seeds. Of course duplicates
can also occur when using web search results as a source of related content, but we
found that it is much less common that a web page is retrieved with different queries.
One could ensure that each text nugget occurs only once in the final expanded corpus
to reduce its size and to avoid duplicates in the passage search results of a QA system.
However, nuggets that are only relevant with regard to a single topic are likely to be
automatically removed from the pseudo-documents for other topics in the merging
phase of the SE pipeline. On the other hand, if a nugget contains useful information
about multiple topics, document search results may be improved if that nugget is
mentioned more than once in different documents. Additional experiments would be
required to determine whether it is overall beneficial to remove duplicates from the
expanded corpus.
The initial pseudo-documents are too large and too noisy to be useful as sources
in a QA system. Topics that are common nouns are frequently ambiguous and their
surface forms may not have the intended word sense when mentioned in a text nugget.
Most proper names have similar meanings throughout a text corpus, but there are
some exceptions, particularly when short forms are used such as Washington for
112 CHAPTER 7. UNSTRUCTURED SOURCES
Washington, D.C. or Bush for George W. Bush. In addition, even if a topic is un-
ambiguous, it may still be mentioned in text nuggets that consist of low quality text
or provide irrelevant details. For instance, many of the nuggets for the topic United
States include such details as meetings that were held in the U.S. or people who
live there. Thus the extracted text nuggets are