canbeseenthattherankofthefirstrelevantpassageoftenremainedunchanged.
For example, out of the 2,846 regular Jeopardy! questions for which relevant passages
were retrieved with and without source expansion, the first relevant result had the
same rank for 1,433 questions. The title search results are less robust because Indri
more often retrieves expanded documents, which are much longer on average than
the documents in the original corpus. Here the rank of the first relevant result did
not change for 880 of the 2,470 questions for which relevant titles were found in both
experiments. The results for Final Jeopardy! are similar, but source expansion over-
all had a larger impact on search performance because there is more headroom for
improvements, and the variance of the rank changes is higher. In experiments with
TREC data, the title rankings are much less stable because the document searches
are relatively ineffective independently of the sources used. This strategy is mainly
intended for questions seeking the name of an entity that matches a given description,
which are less common in TREC datasets. For both types of searches, small differ-
ences in the retrieval ranks are more frequent than large changes. Note that we used
bins of increasing sizes in the histograms since otherwise most of the bins for large
gainsorlosseswouldbeempty. Collins-Thompson[2008]useddifferentdatasetswhen
evaluating the robustness of query expansion techniques and the histograms are based
6.4. END-TO-END EXPERIMENTS 97
on the change in average precision, but nonetheless it seems that source expansion
has lower variance.
When source expansion hurts QA search performance it often only results in a
slightly worse ranking, but when it helps large changes are relatively more frequent.
For instance, the rank of the first relevant passage retrieved by Watson for regular
Jeopardy! questions was improved on average by 10.4 positions if SE helped, but it
only worsened by 5.8 ranks if the expansion hurt. For title searches, the average gain
was 12.6 ranks and the average loss was 7.3 ranks. When considering all questions for
which the rank of the first relevant search result changed in either direction, source
expansion on average yielded an improvement of 1.3 ranks for passages and a gain
of 2.5 for titles. The results are similar for other question