 be described in a query for search-based SE, or that can be looked up in a
local source when using the extraction-based method. For example, a topic could be
a named entity (e.g. United Nations) or a technical term (e.g. volatility), but it could
also be a specific aspect of a broader topic (e.g. corruption in developing countries)
or an event involving multiple entities (e.g. Israeli-Palestinian peace talks). However,
the documents should not cover multiple independent topics since that would render
our approach for retrieving related text and comparing it to seeds less effective.
We also expect that it does not matter if the domain is broad or narrow, as
long as an external resource exists in which related content can be found. The Web
provides information about most general interest topics as well as many specialized
knowledge domains, including various areas of entertainment, global and regional
news, technology, politics, scientific research, and even the most esoteric interests
and hobbies. Local corpora may be used as a source of proprietary or confidential
information (e.g. about the employees and products of a company or intellectual
property) or content that is not freely available on the Web (e.g. much of the financial
literature). Once seed documents have been chosen and external sources have been
identified, theexpansioncanbeperformedwithoutfurthermanualintervention. Thus
our approach can be applied to rapidly grow source content for existing applications,
and it can also facilitate the adaptation of NLP systems to new domains for which
the available sources have insufficient coverage or lack redundancy.
9.3 Future Research
We have demonstrated that source expansion is effective for topic-oriented seed cor-
pora such as encyclopedias or dictionaries, but QA systems can also use a variety of
150 CHAPTER 9. CONCLUSIONS
other resources that are not organized by topics, including web data and newswire
corpora. If these sources are also expanded with related information, this may signifi-
cantlyincreasetheimpactofourapproachonQAperformanceanditsapplicabilityto
new domains and tasks. While we proposed a method for transforming unstructured
sources into seed corpora that can be used as input for the current SE algorithm, its
implementation and evaluation is left as a promising direction for future research. For
instance, this method could