.
• About a more specific topic. For instance, if the topic is an animal species,
a text snippet about a subspecies is also acceptable.
• Ungrammatical or contains spelling errors, if it can still be understood
easily by a human reader.
• Outdated or in the wrong tense. For example, if the topic is Bill Clinton,
the text passage he is the president of the US is outdated but acceptable.
• Redundant, e.g. it is an exact copy of a passage in the seed document or a
passage that has been selected previously.
Note that we permitted redundant text and even exact duplicates since we are not
concerned with redundancy filtering in the scoring phase. Instead, a simple filter that
measures the token overlap of text nuggets and the seed effectively removes lexically
redundant text in the merging phase (Section 4.4).
Wedevelopedagraphicalinterfacethatallowsannotatorstobrowsewebpagesand
label relevant passages that are related to a given seed. In a first attempt, we split the
webpagesintotextnuggetsusingHTMLmarkuptodeterminenuggetboundaries(see
Section 4.2) and asked the annotators to label each nugget as relevant or irrelevant.
However, we found that binary decisions about the relevance of paragraph-length
nuggets are not ideal since (1) often only a substring of a nugget is relevant, which
makes it difficult to decide whether the nugget is a positive instance, and (2) when
assigning binary labels it is impossible to change the granularity of the nuggets, e.g.
by segmenting them into sentences, without labeling the data again. Therefore, we
extended the annotation interface to allow the annotators to select arbitrary regions
of relevant text in a web page. A text nugget was then assigned a positive label if
any substring of it was selected by an annotator. We also experimented with stricter
conditions for relevancy, e.g. requiring at least half of the text nugget to be selected,
and we attempted using the fraction of relevant text in a nugget as a continuous
measure of its relevance. However, both extensions resulted in a moderate drop in
nugget scoring performance.
A screenshot of the annotation GUI is shown in Figure 4.2. The interface displays