question, or they mention it in a different context and do not justify it as the
1
2 CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
correct answer to the given question. SE can address these failures by adding
more relevant content to the sources.
2. Search and candidate extraction failures, i.e. the sources contain and justify the
answer, but the QA system is unable to retrieve relevant text or to extract
the answer from the search results. Often, these failures are due to insufficient
keyword overlap between questions and passages that contain the answers. SE
can help by adding paraphrases of information that is already present in the
knowledge sources.
3. Answer selection failures, i.e. the correct answer is extracted as a candidate but
it is not selected as the most probable answer. This frequently happens if there
is insufficient supporting evidence in the sources or if the answer was found
in a low-ranking search result. Again, SE can address these failures by adding
reformulationsandincreasingsemanticredundancyinthesources,yieldingmore
relevant search results for candidate answer extraction and scoring.
In contrast, when performing query expansion or using pseudo-relevance feedback
(PRF) in the search phase of a QA system, we can (at the most) address failures of
types 2 and 3 since we do not increase the coverage of the sources. In practice, these
techniques can add noise to the queries and typically have high variance [Collins-
Thompson and Callan, 2007]. In question answering, query expansion and PRF often
donotimprovethesearchresultsmuchandinsomeexperimentsevenhurtsystemper-
formance [Pizzato et al., 2006]. Furthermore, even if these methods improve average
performance in a batch evaluation on a large dataset, they sometimes perform poorly
on seemingly easy questions, which may be unacceptable when interacting with real
users as this affects the user’s trust in the reliability of the system. In addition, these
techniques lead to more complex queries that may be more expensive to evaluate at
QA runtime, and PRF even requires an additional search step for each question. For
these reasons, query expansion and PRF are often only applied as fallback solutions
if an initial query yields low recall [Harabagiu et al., 2001, Attardi et al., 2001].
Source expansion applied to the information sources of a question answering sys-