We experimented with different thresholds and found that a value of 95% yields good
results, i.e. anuggetmustcontainatleast5%newtokens. Stricterthresholdsincrease
the effectiveness of the redundancy filter but may also result in useful information
being removed.
4.5. EXAMPLES 47
In addition to removing lexically redundant text, nuggets are dropped if their
relevance scores are below an absolute threshold, or if the total character length of all
nuggets exceeds a threshold that is relative to the length of the seed document. This
second threshold was added to collect more related content for long seed documents,
sincetheseseedsareoftenaboutparticularlyimportantorbroadtopics. InSection6.2
we describe how the two thresholds were chosen in our experiments. The remaining
nuggets are compiled into new pseudo-documents (one document per seed), which
can be indexed and searched along with the original seed corpus, yielding a larger
source with increased coverage and reformulations of existing information.
Note that the generated pseudo-documents are intended to complement and re-
formulate information in the seed documents, rather than repeat text that is already
in the seeds. In our experiments with QA datasets, we used the expanded sources as
additions to the seed corpora, not as their replacements. We also attempted merging
the seeds with their expanded counterparts, expecting a positive impact on document
search results since there is a higher chance of finding all query terms in the com-
bined documents. However, search performance was hurt in some cases as relevant
seed documents were merged with irrelevant content from pseudo-documents, and
overall search recall remained almost unchanged compared to the setup with separate
seeds and expanded documents.
As an alternative to sorting the text nuggets in decreasing order of relevance, we
tried restoring the order in which the nuggets appear in the retrieved web pages. By
preserving the original order, we hoped to break fewer coreferences between adjacent
text nuggets and improve passage search results. In practice, however, this had very
littleimpactonsearchperformancebecauseevenifthenuggetsareleftintheiroriginal
order, therearegapswhereirrelevantorredundanttextwasdropped. Inaddition, the
text nuggets that are included in the pseudo-documents are often several sentences
long, and most of