 ASR system and that are thus acoustically similar to the words that were actu-
ally recognized. This conservative extension of the algorithm mainly compensates for
speech recognition failures, rather than addressing vocabulary mismatches between
queries and spoken documents.
The authors demonstrate that document retrieval from the expanded transcrip-
tions consistently outperforms retrieval from the original transcriptions without ex-
pansion. This result holds even when expanding gold standard transcriptions gen-
erated by humans. Furthermore, if a reasonably accurate ASR system is available,
document expansion performed on top of automatic transcriptions can be more ef-
fective than retrieval from human-generated transcriptions that were not expanded.
Thus the document expansion approach does not only help in the presence of speech
recognition errors, but may also improve traditional document retrieval from written
text collections. If the queries are expanded using pseudo-relevance feedback, docu-
ment expansion is still beneficial but the gains in retrieval performance tend to be
smaller. This document expansion approach relies on the availability of a similar text
corpus to retrieve related documents and is less effective if an unrelated document
collection or the speech transcriptions are used instead. Singhal et al. further observe
that if a word already appears frequently in the original transcribed document, it is
often also selected by the document expansion algorithm and may be overweighted as
a result. By preventing excessive increases in word frequencies, the algorithm could
12 CHAPTER 2. RELATED WORK
be further improved in the TREC 8 SDR evaluation [Singhal et al., 1999].
Darwish and Oard [2002] performed document expansion in the English-Arabic
cross-lingual information retrieval (CLIR) evaluation at TREC 11 [Oard and Gey,
2002]. In the CLIR task, an Arabic newswire corpus was searched for documents
that relate to topics in English. As relevant documents often only contain a fraction
of the terms in the topic descriptions, each document was enriched with related terms
from other documents in the same collection by applying the following procedure:
1. Extract terms with high tf-idf scores from the document, and use them as a
query to retrieve related documents.
2. Merge the retrieved documents and extract high tf-idf terms from the combined
document.
3. Add the extracted terms to the original document.
Unfortunately, the contribution of this expansion to overall system