eval systems in a single performance metric.
3.4 Question Answering Systems
We give a brief overview of two existing question answering systems that we utilized
to evaluate the impact of source expansion on QA performance. The Ephyra system
(Section 3.4.1) was used to evaluate search performance on TREC datasets and the
Watson system (Section 3.4.2) served as the basis for search experiments and end-to-
end QA evaluations on both Jeopardy! questions and TREC data.
3.4.1 Ephyra and OpenEphyra
The Ephyra question answering system [Schlaefer et al., 2006, 2007] developed at
Carnegie Mellon University and previously at Universit¨at Karlsruhe is a modular and
extensible framework that supports the integration of different QA algorithms and
knowledgeresources. Theprimarydesigngoalsweretoenableexperimentswithdiffer-
ent pipeline setups and to ensure the reusability of individual components. Ephyra’s
pipeline includes stages for question analysis, query generation, search and answer
selection, and thus closely resembles the sample pipeline outlined in Section 3.1. Its
current setup combines the following answer extraction approaches:
1. Answer type based extraction. During the question analysis phase, a classifier
predictstheanswertypeofthequestion. Forinstance,thequestionmayseekthe
name of a person, a location or a date. Named entity recognizers are applied to
textpassagesretrievedfromtheknowledgesourcestoextractcandidateanswers
of the expected type.
2. Pattern learning and matching. In an offline learning phase, surface patterns
are generated that can be used to recognize various types of relations in text
passages. For instance, one set of patterns extracts the birthdate of a person,
while a different set matches passages naming the leader of an organization.
During question answering, the questions are categorized by a classification
component, and an appropriate set of surface patterns is applied to extract
candidate answers from the sources.
30 CHAPTER 3. FUNDAMENTALS
Factoid List Definition Overall
Accuracy F(1) F(3) Per-series
Ephyra 0.196 0.096 0.150 0.143
TREC 15
Median 0.186 0.087 0.125 0.134