 from
other websites using the same methodology. The pipeline stages for retrieving web
pages and extracting text nuggets based on structural markup can be applied to any
language for which a search engine is available. A new relevance model can be fitted
using the same learning methods as in the experiments with English sources, but
some of the features may need to be removed or adapted to the new language. For
instance, the topicality features are based on language models and term weighting
schemes that were chosen specifically because of their effectiveness for English text,
and the surface feature that measures the ratio of capital letters in a text nugget
is not applicable to Asian languages. In the merging phase, the thresholds that are
used to remove lexically redundant text and to control the length of the generated
pseudo-documents may be adjusted to achieve optimal results. For example, more
lenient thresholds may be chosen if the relevance estimates are less accurate or if
the sources of related content are small. The only language-specific resources are a
tokenizer and a list of function words for stopword removal, which are also available
for most other languages.
While we focused on evaluating the impact of source expansion on factoid QA
results, our approach can also be applied to other types of questions with more com-
plex answers. For instance, the expanded sources could be used to extract and val-
idate answers for list questions (e.g. Which U.S. presidents were assassinated?) and
pseudo-documents about popular topics could also be helpful for answering defini-
tional questions (e.g. What is the XYZ Affair?). In addition, the SE method can be
152 CHAPTER 9. CONCLUSIONS
adapted to other information retrieval and extraction applications that benefit from
large, redundant information sources. For example, the performance of a document
retrieval system may be improved by expanding the documents and augmenting their
index representations with related text. Our approach could also be applied to gather
additional relevant content for machine reading (MR). Given a text corpus about a
specific domain (e.g. National Football League), an MR system automatically extracts
instances of a pre-defined set of relations (e.g. players and their teams). The relation
extraction algorithm may be more effective if the corpus is expanded with text that
contains additional instances of these relations, or additional evidence for instances
that