 expanded
documents and may help select nuggets about more obscure aspects of a topic that
are not mentioned frequently.
We expect that the SE method can be adapted with relative ease to different
information sources and new knowledge domains. Related text can be retrieved from
the Web or other sources with a search engine, or it can be extracted directly from a
local corpus. While we used HTML markup to split web pages into text nuggets, one
2http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/docs/LDC2002T31/
9.3. FUTURE RESEARCH 151
could also extract paragraphs or coherent passages from documents in other formats.
The relevance model in the scoring phase mostly relies on features that are based
on only the seed document and the text nuggets, which can be computed for text
extracted from arbitrary sources. We also used features that leverage Yahoo! search
rankings and summary snippets, but similar features could be derived from the search
results of other retrieval systems, and the statistical model in the experiments with
the local web crawl was effective even without search-related features. The relevance
model can also be extended easily with additional features that are available for new
sources, such as page ranks or spam scores for a web crawl or features derived from
metadata in a newswire corpus. We have shown that a new statistical model can be
fitted in approximately one day using active learning. However, one could also adapt
an existing relevance model that was trained on similar data to a new domain by
applying transfer learning techniques. For example, relevance probabilities estimated
with the existing model can be used as one of the features when fitting a new model
to a different dataset. This transfer learning method integrates quite naturally with
active learning. At first we can select queries the original relevance model is uncertain
about, i.e. instances that are close to the old decision boundary. Once an initial set
of positive and negative instances has been labeled, new models can be trained that
combine the estimates from the existing model with other features, and subsequent
queries can be selected based on the new decision boundaries.
Since the source expansion approach in its current form does not rely on deep
naturallanguageprocessingtechniques, itcouldalsobeadaptedtodifferentlanguages
with relatively minor modifications. For example, there exist versions of Wikipedia
and Wiktionary in many other languages that could be expanded with content