 in a document. In contrast to our previous
approach of using features of adjacent instances to capture the context of a text
nugget, we now model dependencies in a probabilistic framework and leverage more
distant relationships. The sequential model augments existing relevance features with
transition features that are motivated by text segmentation algorithms and predict
boundaries between relevant and irrelevant text.
8.1 Active Learning
While there is no shortage of unlabeled data for relevance estimation, labeled text
nuggets for supervised learning are not readily available. When expanding Wikipedia
and Wiktionary with web search results, we automatically retrieved about 40 million
web pages and extracted about 4 billion unlabeled text nuggets (on average about
10,000 per seed or 100 per web page). However, it took about 5–6 weeks to create the
annotated dataset described in Section 5.1, which comprises about 160,000 labeled
textnuggets. Inaddition,whenwemanuallylabeledthisdata,wefoundthatlessthan
6% of all paragraph-length nuggets contain relevant information. The availablility of
vast amounts of unlabeled data and the imbalance between relevant and irrelevant
instances make the relevance estimation task a natural application of active learning.
It has been shown that active learning can benefit from a large pool of unlabeled data
121
122 CHAPTER 8. EXTENSIONS FOR RELEVANCE ESTIMATION
[Tong and Koller, 2001], and that it is particularly effective for sparse classes with
few positive examples [McCallum and Nigam, 1998].
The principal idea of active learning is to repeat the following three steps until
performance on a labeled test set converges or, if no labeled data is available, until
additional iterations have little effect on model parameters:
1. Select an instance from a (possibly very large) pool of unlabeled training data
as a query.
2. Ask a human annotator to label the selected instance and add it to a pool of
labeled training data.
3. Fit a model to the labeled data, and evaluate it on an independent test set if
one is available.
This basic algorithm can be instantiated with different learning techniques and dif-
ferent query selection strategies. In Section 8.1.1 we describe the configurations used
in our experiments, and in Section 8.1.2 we present evaluation results.