adding semantic redundancy to the seed corpus and by increasing the coverage of the
information sources.
6.1 Datasets
We used datasets comprising over 4,000 Jeopardy! questions and over 3,000 TREC
factoid questions to evaluate the impact of source expansion on question answering
results. In Section 3.2 we gave an overview of the two QA applications and analyzed
differences between these tasks that affect the performance of our method. We now
describe the question sets and the evaluation methodology used in our experiments
in more detail.
6.1.1 Jeopardy!
Our source expansion algorithm was evaluated on questions from past Jeopardy!
episodes that were collected by fans of the quiz show on J! Archive1. Most of these
questions ask for factoid answers that can be extracted from unstructured document
collections, but there are also puzzles, word plays and puns that require additional
processing and special inference. A Jeopardy! episode consists of two rounds with
up to 30 regular questions each (sometimes not all questions are revealed), followed
by a Final Jeopardy! round with a single question. The Final Jeopardy! question is
generally harder than regular questions, both for human players and the Watson QA
system, which will be reflected in our evaluation results. In addition, the contestants
1http://www.j-archive.com/
73
74 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
Dataset # Episodes # Questions
Regular Jeopardy! 66 3,508
Final Jeopardy! 788 788
Table 6.1: Questions in Jeopardy! datasets.
are given 30 seconds to come up with the answer to the Final Jeopardy! question,
instead of only 5 seconds for regular questions. Thus, the Final Jeopardy! questions
leave more headroom for source expansion and we can use large expanded corpora
even if this increases QA runtime noticeably. More than 6,000 Jeopardy! shows have
aired over a period of almost 30 years, and the total number of questions available on
J! Archive exceeds 200,000. In our source expansion experiments, we used datasets
consisting of regular Jeopardy! questions and Final Jeopardy! questions from ran-
domly selected past game shows. Questions with audio or visual clues are currently
not supported by Watson and were