
time, nouns in the documents are substituted with hypernyms or their synonyms in
WordNet [Fellbaum, 1998] if these terms occur in the query. In contrast to previously
discussed algorithms, this method cannot be appliedat indexing timesince itdepends
on the query, and it focuses on replacing existing terms in the documents instead of
adding new terms or manipulating weights. In the TREC 2002 Novelty track [Har-
man, 2002], the approach outperformed a query expansion algorithm that augmented
query terms with their hyponyms. However, this technique may be computationally
intensive, and it is unclear whether the hypernym expansion was performed for the
entire collection or only for documents that ranked high in an initial search.
14 CHAPTER 2. RELATED WORK
2.3.2 Link and Citation Analysis
Another common form of document expansion leverages links and citations in a text
corpus to enrich documents with related text from documents that reference them or
are referenced by them. For example, when searching the Web or a local collection
of HTML documents (e.g. the intranet of a company) the anchor texts associated
with hyperlinks can be added to the representations of the target pages to enhance
them with high-level descriptions of their content. The use of anchor text for web
page retrieval dates back to the WWW Worm, one of the earliest web search engines
developed in 1993 [McBryan, 1994]. During indexing, a web crawler recorded for
each URL the anchor texts of links pointing to it, as well as the titles and URLs
of the linking pages. This meta-data could then be searched independently or in
conjunction with other indexed information, and the users could navigate to the
linking web pages. Brin and Page [1998] adopted the idea of leveraging anchor texts
for document retrieval in the Google search engine. They noted that often anchor
texts are more descriptive of the linked pages than the text on those pages and thus
associated the anchor texts with the destination pages. This approach also enabled
Google to retrieve files that do not contain plain text, such as images and programs,
and pages that were not downloaded by their web crawler.
Craswell et al. [2001] demonstrate that anchor text can be used effectively to re-
trievedocumentsfrombothageneralTRECwebcollectionandacrawlofauniversity
