 be applied to a newswire source such as the AQUAINT
corpus2, a collection of about 1 million news articles that was the reference corpus in
TREC 11–15. News corpora are valuable sources of information about entities and
events that have been at the center of attention in a given time period, and existing
TREC datasets could be used to evaluate whether a SE system can find additional
relevant content about the topics in the AQUAINT corpus.
Source expansion improves QA performance both by increasing the semantic re-
dundancy of the knowledge sources and by adding new information that was not
already covered in the sources. The ideal tradeoff between the two types of related
information depends on the available text corpora and the QA task, and on how the
expanded content is used. For instance, one should focus on adding redundant data
if the current text corpus already has high coverage or if the source of related content
is too unreliable to trust information that is not in the seeds, but it may be more
effective to increase the coverage if the seed corpus is small or the QA system has low
search recall. Furthermore, one could use a source with high coverage when extract-
ing candidate answers, and a different corpus with additional reformulations of the
same information to retrieve supporting evidence for answer scoring. This raises the
question of how the SE algorithm can be adjusted to control the mix of redundant
and new content.
The current relevance estimation approach is biased towards redundant informa-
tion because it selects text nuggets that are similar to the seed documents, but we
already noted that the size of the nuggets could be increased to pick up more new
information along with the redundant content. In addition, instead of estimating the
topicality of text nuggets using only the seeds, one could train adaptive topic models
that are updated with related text that has high relevance probabilities based on an
initial model. The amount of new information could also be increased by performing
additional searches for related content using query terms extracted from the retrieved
text, thus allowing the focus to shift towards aspects of a topic that are not already
coveredintheseed. Finally, onecouldclustertheextractedtextnuggetsandcompute
topicality features based on the clustering, such as the proximity of a nugget to the
nearest centroid. This may increase the diversity of the information in the