ict pope benedict xvi pope john paul ii poverty
prayer religion religion and spirituali ty roman catholic roman catholicis m saint
saints scott hahn self-help spiritual spiritual growth spirituali ty women
There are few such instances in the labeled dataset, and this type of failure may
simply be avoided by including more low-quality, noisy text in the training data.
This should yield a model that gives more weight to some of the surface features,
such as the ratios of known words and trigrams, and that imposes a higher penalty
on malformed text.
On the other hand, the logistic regression model sometimes assigns a low relevance
score to a text nugget that covers an important aspect of the topic. This happens if
the aspect is not mentioned in the seed, or if it is only mentioned in passing or using
different terminology. In either case the nugget shares few key terms with the seed
and thus has low topicality feature values. For example, the following nuggets are all
ranked very low despite being relevant:
• Topic: Berlin Wall
Score: 0.1135
Margaret Thatcher held an impromptu press conference outside of her official resi-
dence, No. 10 Downing Street, on the morning following the initial opening of the
Berlin Wall. In her remarks, it is clear that she is hesitant to reply directly to the
idea of a unified German state. Instead, she expressed a desire to move slowly and
to facilitate the internal growth of democracy from within East Germany...
• Topic: Iran-Iraq War
Score: 0.0216
TheIraqiNavynumberedabout4,000menandconsistedofsubmarinechasers,patrol
boats, missile boats, torpedo boats and minesweepers of Soviet, British and Yugosla-
vian origin. The two main naval bases were at Basra and Um Qasr, neither of which
is in a secure position militarily.
• Topic: Mother Teresa
Score: 0.0390
She received an honorary PhD in Theology (Doctor Honoris Causa in Theology),
University of Cambridge in England.
The first text nugget is about the reaction of the British government to the fall of
the Berlin Wall, which our annotator considered to be a relevant aspect of the topic
but which is completely absent in the seed document. The second example