! dataset is
higher than on Final Jeopardy! data since the regular questions are generally easier
to process and ask about less obscure facts. The performance numbers for TREC are
lower than the regular Jeopardy! results because Watson’s sources and its retrieval
component are somewhat less effective for TREC questions. Most of the information
sources were selected based on Jeopardy! data, and TREC questions usually contain
less useful information about the answer that can be leveraged by the search compo-
nent. In addition, the answer keys for TREC questions have lower coverage because
these questions were not intended to be unambiguous and often have multiple correct
answers. For instance, the dataset includes questions such as Name a civil war bat-
tlefield. (TREC 9, Question 543) or How far is it from Denver to Aspen? (TREC 10,
Question 894), which have many acceptable answers that are not all covered by the
regular expressions used in our automated evaluations.
Statistical source expansion consistently improves search recall on all datasets,
independently of the baseline or search strategy used. We performed one-sided sign
tests and found that all gains are statistically significant with p <.001. Even if a
seed corpus with reasonable coverage for a QA task exists, such as Wikipedia for
Jeopardy! and TREC, the expanded corpora improve performance substantially. If
a source with lower coverage is expanded, such as Wiktionary, very large gains are
possible. Compared to the strongest baseline comprising a collection of sources that
were specifically selected for the two QA tasks, our method improves total search
recall by 4.2% on regular Jeopardy! questions, 8.6% on Final Jeopardy! and 4.6% on
TREC questions. The improvements are quite large even though of all sources used
in the baseline only Wikipedia, Wiktionary and two small encyclopedias (about half
of the collection) were expanded. It can further be seen that relatively few questions
are hurt by our method. For example, 171 regular Jeopardy! questions are gained
6.3. SEARCH EXPERIMENTS 83
21–8
CERT
!ydrapoeJ
laniF
!ydrapoeJ
ralugeR
secruoS
latoT
seltiT
segassaP