 the
sources, e.g. that Mother Teresa was a female humanitarian who lived in India
and that she was a Christian, but this information alone is not enough to be
certain about the answer.
• Category: BOBBING FOR POETS
Clue: In 1785 he wrote “Gie me ae spark o’ nature’s fire, that’s a’ the
learning I desire”
Answer: Bobby Burns
The original sources do not contain this quotation – not even substrings such
as “nature’s fire” or “learning I desire”.
6.5. REDUNDANCY VS. COVERAGE 105
• Category: LIBRARIES
Clue: The millionth visitor to this library received a signed copy of
“My Turn”, some jelly beans & a weekend getaway
Answer: Ronald Reagan Presidential Library
We looked at encyclopedia articles about Ronald Reagan Presidential Library
and My Turn (Nancy Reagan’s autobiography) as well as other documents that
contain both entities, but none of them mentions a price given to the millionth
visitor of the library. Of course, the clue contains two hints that point towards
Ronald Reagan, the memoirs of his wife and his favorite candy, but again this
information would only suffice for an educated guess.
Overall, semantic redundancy seems to account for most of the gain in QA accu-
racy, which is not surprising since the current implementation of our source expansion
method is biased towards adding redundant information. This is because some of the
most predictive relevance features estimate the topicality of a text nugget by compar-
ing it to the seed document. If the nugget has high overlap with the seed, it is more
likely to be included in the expanded document. However, the paragraph-length text
nuggets used in our experiments are often several sentences long, and they frequently
contain a mix of novel and redundant information. Thus source expansion still selects
new information despite this bias towards content that is similar to the seed.
Future research could focus on mechanisms for controlling the tradeoff between
redundancy and coverage, and on determining the ideal combination of the two types
of content for source expansion. For instance, longer text nuggets could be extracted
from the retrieved documents to select more novel information along with text that
closely resembles seed