Carrolletal.,2012b]. ItalsoincludestheAQUAINT
newswire corpus, which was the reference source in TREC 11–15 and contains the
answers to all questions in these datasets (except NIL questions, which were not used
in our experiments). We compare the Wikipedia and Wiktionary baselines to config-
urations that include the corresponding expanded sources with 300,000 and 100,000
pseudo-documents, respectively. The collection of all sources is compared to a cor-
pus to which only expanded versions of Wikipedia, Wiktionary and the two small
encyclopedias in Table 6.4 were added.
The sources were indexed and searched with both Indri5 and Lucene6, and the
search results were pooled. Watson’s retrieval component [Chu-Carroll et al., 2012a]
was used to generate queries from Jeopardy! clues and TREC questions. The queries
mostly consist of keywords and phrases combined with proximity operators and term
weights. Two complementary search strategies were evaluated:
1. We retrieved passages of 20 tokens and subsequently adjusted them to align
with sentence boundaries. The adjusted passages have different lengths, but
the average value was similar in all experiments and thus the search perfor-
mance of different configurations is directly comparable. Multiple searches were
performed for each question and a total of 20 passages were retrieved:
5http://www.lemurproject.org/indri/
6http://lucene.apache.org/
80 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
• 5 passages were retrieved with Indri from all documents.
• 10 passages were retrieved with Indri only from documents whose titles
appear in the Jeopardy! or TREC question. These documents are more
likely to contain relevant text.
• 5 passages were retrieved with Lucene from all documents.
2. We fetched documents and used their titles as search results. The title searches
target questions asking for an entity that matches a given description, such as
the Jeopardy! question From the Latin for “evening”, it’s a service of Evening
Worship7 (Answer: vesper). Source expansion helps for these searches by gen-
erating more complete and redundant descriptions of the entities that are more
likely to match the query, not by adding new entities.