 content, or shorter nuggets could be used to focus even more
on redundant information. Similarly, more constrained queries could be formulated
that include additional key terms extracted from the seed to retrieve documents that
are more closely related to existing content. We discuss other techniques for biasing
the expansion when proposing areas for future work in Section 9.3. The ideal tradeoff
may depend on the seed corpora and the application that leverages the expanded
sources. For example, when developing a QA system for the medical or legal domain,
onemayneedtofocusoncontentthatissimilartotheinformationinanauthoritative
seed corpus to ensure that the selected data is reliable. Redundancy can also be more
important if the QA domain is relatively narrow and the seeds already have high
coverage for that domain.
106 CHAPTER 6. APPLICATION TO QUESTION ANSWERING
Chapter 7
Unstructured Sources
In previous source expansion experiments, we relied on a web search engine to retrieve
information that is related to the topics of seed documents. This raises the questions
of how much our approach depends on high-quality search results, and whether a
seed corpus can be expanded even without using a retrieval system. In Section 7.1
we demonstrate that it is possible to extract relevant content directly from a locally
stored, unstructured text corpus, and that this extraction-based method is equally
effective as search-based source expansion.
We further outline in Section 7.2 how a similar approach may be used to expand
unstructured sources in which there exists no one-to-one correspondence between
documents and topics for which related content can be gathered. The principal idea
is to transform unstructured sources into topic-oriented seed corpora for the source
expansion pipeline that was applied previously to encyclopedias and a dictionary.
While we address some of the challenges involved in this transformation process, we
leave its implementation as a promising direction for future work.
7.1 Extraction-Based Source Expansion
While web searches can be an effective means of obtaining relevant content for source
expansion, we now show that a search engine is not required for our method to work.
Instead of retrieving web pages about the topic of a seed document, it is possible to
automatically browse through a local text corpus and extract content that is related
tothetopic. Thisisanimportantextensionofthesourceexp