, we initially followed a manual source acquisition
approach in which the information sources used by the Watson QA system were
augmented with resources that were expected to fill in gaps in the coverage of the
Jeopardy! domain identified in an error analysis. However, we found that statistical
SE substantially outperforms this intuitive approach to building source material, and
it also requires less manual effort. Furthermore, when we manually augmented the
knowledge sources with text corpora that improved QA performance on a particular
question set, we often did not observe the same performance gains when switching to
an unseen test collection. This was particularly true when adding small or specialized
sources that only addressed a few questions in a development set. Statistical SE, on
the other hand, does not depend on any particular dataset and is therefore less prone
to overfitting. It does, however, rely on a relevant seed corpus that at least touches on
the most important topics. Also note that the manual and automatic approaches to
growing source material are not mutually exclusive. Given a collection of manually
acquired sources, statistical SE can be performed using these sources as seeds to
gather additional related content.
2.3 Document Expansion
In this section we will discuss a variety of techniques for expanding text documents
to facilitate their retrieval given queries that do not exactly match the terminology
used in those documents. For instance, documents can automatically be augmented
with terms and phrases extracted from related documents in the same collection or an
auxiliary corpus. Some methods also re-weight existing content words based on their
frequencies in related text, or substitute terms with similar or more general concepts
that appear in the query. When indexing a collection of web pages, the anchor text
associated with hyperlinks provides high-level descriptions of the linked documents
and can be added to their index representations. Similarly, in a collection of scientific
publications, terms that appear in the vicinity of citations can be associated with
the referenced articles. Conversely, the content of linked or cited documents can be
propagated to the documents that contain the references.
Research on document expansion dates back at least to the early 1980s, when
O’Connor [1982] leveraged citation text in a corpus of chemistry articles to improve
search recall, and the field has since evolved into a diverse and well-established area
of research. It has been shown that document expansion can improve retrieval per-
formance on various tasks, including