, nuggets can be ranked by their feature values in decreasing or increasing
order, depending on whether instances with larger values are more likely or less likely
to be relevant. We report the MAP score of whichever ranking is more effective and
indicate for each feature whether it was used to rank nuggets in descending (+) or
ascending (-) order. For example, text nuggets are more often relevant if they have
a large cosine similarity score, and they are also more likely to be relevant if the
60 CHAPTER 5. INTRINSIC EVALUATION
document rank is small. Ties between identical feature values were resolved by using
the original ranking of the text nuggets in the search results (i.e. the baseline Search
Rank). All of the features except DocumentRank are computed at the level of indi-
vidual text nuggets and can have different values for each nugget in a document. For
those features, we also show the ranking performance if the value of each instance
is substituted with the value of the previous or next instance. These results allow
us to draw conclusions about the effectiveness of adjacent features in the model LR
Adjacent.
It can be seen that some relevance features are very effective when used individu-
ally. For example, when adopting the source expansion approach, one could initially
use only CosineSim to rank text nuggets by their relevance. This feature, when used
on its own, is the same as the Cosine Sim baseline in Table 5.4 and Figure 5.1. Its
performance (74.75% MAP on markup-based text nuggets) comes relatively close to
the best statistical model (80.59% MAP), and it is easy to implement and does not
require training data. However, this method heavily relies on the content of the seed
document since it measures the similarity between the seed and the text nuggets.
In the next section we will see that the approach is only effective for the relevance
estimation task if the seeds are long and of high quality.
Other features that could be used independently to rank text nuggets include
TopicRatioSeed (69.40% MAP) and 3rdPersonPronoun (59.53% MAP). The latter
is a binary feature, but it is still effective since we use the Search Rank baseline to
break ties. Thus nuggets that contain a third person pronoun are ranked higher than