e-4
S: 2.44e-4 S: 2.44e-4 S: 2.44e-4 S: 2.44e-4 S: 2.44e-4
LR Adjacent
M: 2.44e-4 M: 2.44e-4 M: 2.44e-4 M: 4.88e-4 M: 0.0134
Table 5.5: P-values for all pairs of baselines and linear relevance models, based on a
one-sided Wilcoxon signed-rank test. The null hypothesis is that the ranking strategy
to the left is as effective as the strategy at the top, the alternative is that it is more
effective. Weshowp-valuesforbothsentence-leveltextnuggets(S)andmarkup-based
text nuggets (M).
precision, a metric that is common in information retrieval and that is convenient
for this task because it summarizes the quality of a ranking in a single performance
measure. The disadvantage of this method is its sensitivity to the top of the ranking.
If some irrelevant text nuggets are ranked high, average precision can be low but the
ranking may still be very effective for source expansion. This is because we compile
pseudo-documents from a large number of text nuggets that are ranked above a cutoff
point, and a few irrelevant nuggets have little overall impact regardless of their ranks
among the nuggets that pass the threshold. As an alternative to average precision,
one could compute the precision or recall at the cutoff point that is used by the
sourceexpansionsystem,buttheidealcutoffdependsontheapplicationtheexpanded
sources are used for. Ultimately we are interested in selecting a ranking strategy that
is effective for a given application, but task-based evaluations can be computationally
intensive. Fortunately we found that our intrinsic evaluation results based on average
precision closely mirror the actual impact of each method on question answering
search performance (see Chapter 6), and thus we can efficiently evaluate different
strategies and make an informed choice based on these results.
In Figure 5.2 we show how each of the relevance features used in the statistical
models performs if used individually to rank sentence-level text nuggets, and in Fig-
ure 5.3 we give similar results for markup-based nuggets. When using only a single
feature