 a rather “friendly” example selected for
illustration purposes, and that the TextTiling approach often misses transitions or
predicts transitions at wrong locations.
TransitionLR (continuous). We fitted two language models to a dataset of man-
ually labeled text nuggets introduced in Section 5.1, using the topics marked as LM
in Table 5.1 as training data. A transition language model was trained on only those
text nuggets that immediately follow a transition between relevant and irrelevant text
(i.e. the first nugget in a sequence of relevant or irrelevant nuggets), and a background
model was trained on all nuggets. Both models are unigrams with Good-Turing dis-
counting. This feature is the ratio of the likelihood of the text nugget that follows
a boundary under the transition model and the background model. It is intended to
increase or decrease the probability of a transition if certain trigger words occur. For
instance, consecutive relevant nuggets often contain words such as however, thus and
but, or pronouns that refer to entities mentioned in previous nuggets.
Even though smoothed unigram models are very robust and require little training
data, we realize that the datasets used to fit the language models (particularly the
transition model) may be too sparse to achieve optimal performance. We were unable
to use more training data because most of the annotated data had to be reserved for
the estimation of feature weights and the evaluation of our models. An alternative to
this language modeling approach may be the use of a manually compiled dictionary
of discourse markers (e.g. so, because, now, actually) to detect coherent text passages.
However, the web data used for source expansion is very heterogeneous, and it may
be difficult to identify a comprehensive set of discourse markers that is effective across
different domains and writing styles.
CharacterLengthDiff (continuous). The absolute value of the percentage differ-
ence between the number of characters in the text nugget that immediately precedes
the boundary and the text nugget that immediately follows it. Documents frequently
contain sequences of relevant nuggets that have approximately the same length, such
as items in a list or table, or paragraphs in a narrative. A transition between relevant
and irrelevant text is more likely if this feature has a large value.
3rdPersonPronoun (binary). This feature is identical to the 3