
Language analysis is typically viewed as a large search problem, with various constraints
and heuristics introduced to make the search tractable. Often we are obliged to introduce res­
tricted constraints to limit the search, although more flexible or complex constraints would be
preferred. For instance, syntactic and semantic constraints need to be relaxed in order to handle
a number of types of ill-formedness. It is desirable to replace simple semantic constraints in
metonymic and some other non-literal usages by more complex reasoning procedures. Such
approaches will be feasible only when computing systems developed under HPCC are available.
November 23,1992 21
4.2.3. Auditory and vocal-tract modeling
The mathematical models of the speech signal in use today were proposed over fifty years
ago and have remained essentially unaltered since that time. This model, called the source-filter
model, assumes that there are sound sources as well as an independent vocal tract that is a time
varying linear filter driven by the sound sources. Although there are many computational reali­
zations of this model, the underlying mathematics for all of them is the wave equation. This
model has been remarkably successful in speech processing applications partly because it was
well matched to early forms of digital computing.
The source-filter model is inadequate today because it has many limitations with respect to
speech generation and recognition. For instance, speech recognizers based on this model are
incapable of making fine phonetic distinctions reliably when synthetic voices are used and
bandwidth is limited. These limitations can partly be overcome by developing new signal pro­
cessing models that can exploit high performance computing systems developed under the
HPCC Initiative. A particularly intriguing approach is that of computational fluid dynamics
(CFD) that views the speech signal as the acoustic consequence of fluid flow in the human vocal
apparatus. CFD is also appropriate for studying the human auditory periphery whose principal
organ is a fluid-filled chamber. Such studies may well help explain how the human listener can
classify accurately speech sounds under adverse conditions.
4.2.4. Integration of multiple levels of speech and language analyses
A speech-recognition system typically operates in a very large search space, producing
many candidate-sentence hypotheses for each spoken utterance. The most obvious role of the
language understanding component is to provide a meanful representation for an utterance,
which can be translated