
mation in such systems will be stored predominantly in digital form in electronic libraries by the
end of the decade. Such databases can quickly grow to very large sizes, presenting challenges
for designers of information storage, transmission, and presentation systems.
In the rest of this section, we describe a few applications to illustrate the importance of this
area, discuss the fundamental science and enabling technologies, and highlight various implica­
tions for computer architects in designing new computers for this area.
November 23,1992 18
4.1. Grand Challenge Applications
1) Electronic library and librarian. An electronic library represents one of the most excit­
ing and potentially important grand challenges of the decade. We can foresee, by the year 2000,
developing the technology needed to electronically store and distribute quantities of information
large enough to rival a major national library such as the Library of Congress. This capability
can fundamentally change the way scientists, engineers, scholars, teachers, and students work by
making a wealth of information available from every desk-top computer in the country. Full
scale projects, such as putting the Library of Congress on line, await the appropriation of large
amounts of money as well as further reduction in the cost of mass storage. However, over the
next three years, it is possible to engage in scale-up experiments in which specialized libraries of
intermediate size can be built and made available to the public.
To manage information in such an electronic library, an electronic librarian is needed to
organize and catalog text as well as to assist users in locating information. Such systems will go
beyond current automatic classification and full-text retrieval systems, not only providing access
to individual files but also to entire collections of full text files, catalogs, reference material,
encyclopedias, indexes, abstract files, and collections of images and sounds. One of the critical
issues is the user interface of which speech and machine translation are important components.
The issue related to information retrieval is discussed in Section 5.1.
a) Spoken language interfaces. A spoken language interface is a natural way to access
information. A real-time spoken-language interface can carry on a conversation with a range of
users: from the casual or first-time user who may need guidance on how to use the system, to the
expert who may choose to talk in a focused, concise manner. This will require a system that
supports speaker-independent real-