 application problems are probably among the hardest
that any researchers have attempted before. Some of these applications may be within our reach
by the year 2000, while others may take longer for solutions to mature. Progress in these areas
will require advances in device and networking technologies, signal processing techniques, AI,
algorithms, and new ideas in integrating many existing results and components into working sys­
tems.
In this article we have only scratched the surface of the issues related to grand challenge
applications in the areas discussed. Although we do not offer any solutions for these problems,
we have succeeded in bringing together many experts in these diversified areas to discuss com­
mon issues, solutions, and techniques. We feel that there is much to gain by holding frequent
workshops such as the one that this report is based on. These workshops allow people working
in different areas — researchers, application designers, AI engineers, tools builders, and experts
working on specific grand challenge application problems — to get together and reexamine their
work and attempt to find common solutions. We hope that this article will motivate further
excitement in these areas.
November 23,1992 37
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The authors of this report wish to thank Dr. Su-Shing Chen and Dr. Y. T. Chien of the NSF
for suggesting this workshop. Support of this workshop was provided by National Science
Foundation under grant IRI-92-12592, which was jointly funded by the Knowledge Models and
Cognitive Systems, Robotics and Machine Intelligence, and Interactive Systems Programs of the
IRIS5 Division, the Microelectronic Systems Architecture Program of the MIPS5 Division, and
the Computer Systems Program of the CCR5 Division. The authors also appreciate very much
the guidance provided by Dr. Chen in focusing our attention on important issues. The authors
are also grateful for the comments provided by the Division and Program Directors of NSF who
attended the workshop.
5. IRIS Division is the Division of Information, Robotics, and Intelligent Systems. MIPS Division is the Division of Microelectronic
Information Processing Systems. CCR Division is the Division of Computer and Computation Research.
November 23,1992 38
AUTHOR BIOGRAPHIES
Benjamin W. Wah is a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a Research
Professor at the Coordinated Science Laboratory and the Beckman Institute, University of Illi­
nois at