 scene-recognition strategies be automatically acquired for
utilizing context and the many possible feature cues that may be available in a scene?
The first problem focuses on the generality of geometric modeling. We must extend
current static shape modeling techniques to more explicitly describe properties that are detect­
able by a given sensor. This modeling-for-detectability means taking into account the imaging
process in order to identify physically meaningful and measurable features. It also means that
dynamic modeling of non-rigid surfaces and objects must be based on physically accurate con­
straints (such as mass, friction, forces and torques). Moreover, it needs models based on seman­
tic or functional descriptions of the use of objects.
The second problem posed above is related to the automation of the model-acquisition pro­
cess. Current model-construction techniques in computer vision (and computer graphics) require
painstaking manual effort to add new models. New algorithms are needed for supporting several
issues related to this problem, which will necessarily overlap with other basic research problems
in learning and in combining perception and action. Examples include a) incremental shape
learning from multiple views, multiple resolutions, and multiple focuses of attention; b) shape
learning by active surface exploration; c) compiling characteristic views based on physical con­
straints on geometric and kinematic shape, lighting and imaging processes; and d) constructing
large-model databases using inter-model and intra-model characteristics to produce efficient
storage and access methods.
The third problem posed above involves the automatic construction of robust recognition
strategies. This is necessary to acquire and optimize a range of information that is difficult for a
human to catalogue and integrate. Although the number and types of cues available for object
and scene recognition is large, only a small amount is present in a particular image. Thus there
are many paths for semantic inference, including data-directed construction of 3-D information
(such as points, lines and surfaces), and model-based recognition using distinctive features (such
November 23,1992 12
as color, texture and shape) and scene context (such as spatial and functional relationships). The
strategies developed should be capable of using only the available information.
In short, model acquisition in its most general form is a computationally demanding prob­
lem that is at the heart of learning about the physical environment in which we live. Sensors
provide measurements about that environment, and