 Fahlman received
his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1977 for his work on the NETL sys­
tem, a semantic network memory built upon massively parallel hardware. His B.S. and M.S.
degrees are also from M.I.T.
Ralph Grishman is Professor of Computer Science at New York University. He has been
involved in research in natural language processing since 1969. He served for a year (1982-83)
as project leader in natural language processing at the Navy Center for Applied Research in
Artificial Intelligence. Since 1985, he has directed the Proteus Project, funded by the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency and the National Science Foundation, which has conducted
research in natural language text analysis, including information extraction, document retrieval,
November 23,1992 41
and machine translation. He is a past president of the Association for Computational Linguis­
tics, and the author of the text Computational Linguistics: An Introduction.
Lynette Hirschman is Principal Research Scientist in the Spoken Language Systems group
at M.I.T. Laboratory for Computer Science. She has done research on language understanding
since receiving her Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in 1972. Her early research
includes work on sublanguage grammars and discovery procedures for sublanguage semantics,
as well as logic-grammar based text understanding systems. Her recent work focuses on spoken
language systems, particularly integration of speech and natural language processing and dialog
modeling. She chairs the DARPA Spoken Language Multi-Site Data Collection Working
Group, coordinating data collection and performance evaluation of interactive spoken language
systems.
Richard Korf is an Associate Professor of computer science at the University of California,
Los Angeles. He received his B.S. from M.I.T. in 1977, and his M.S. and Ph.D. from Carnegie-
Mellon University in 1980 and 1983, respectively, all in computer science. From 1983 to 1985,
he served as Herbert M. Singer Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Columbia Univer­
sity. His research is in the areas of problem-solving, heuristic search, and planning in AI. He is
the author of Learning to Solve Problems by Searching for Macro-Operators (Pitman, 1985).
Dr. Korf is the recipient of a 1985 IBM Faculty Development Award,