 and the cost of such implementations.
4) Language and compiler support. The choice of the language in AI processing is impor­
tant but it is not likely to solve the problem in the near future. Currently, there is a mismatch
between the high-level languages suitable for developing AI software (such as Lisp and other
traditional AI languages) and an architecture that can execute the resulting software for real time
applications. More work is needed in the development of good compilers, software enginnering
techniques, software development environments, debugging tools for large scale parallel sys­
tems, performance visualization tools, and methods for decomposing AI software between
general-purpose and special-purpose hardware.
November 23,1992 35
5.4. Infrastructure Support
AI researchers working on HPCC projects will benefit by having access to on-line
knowledge bases, benchmarks, corpora, (hardware and software) systems developed by other
researchers, and design and evaluation tools. Sharing such information will avoid spending
unnecessary efforts to develop similar information, and will help calibrate new results developed
in the future. Such information sharing practices are emerging, as is in the development of com­
mon benchmarks in computer vision and SNLP. However, the community at large will need
more coherent and coordinated efforts in collecting such information and in making it easily
accessible.
The AI community also needs access to fast and large scale parallel computing resources
with fast I/O, and toolkits embodying traditional numerical modeling codes (such as Monte
Carlo simulations, ordinary differential equations, and various statistical analysis packages). To
integrate AI systems with traditional numerical systems implies that the AI systems must be
“embeddable” into “mainstream” computing environments. This also means that AI symbolic
computing at a minimum must be compiled into the native environments hosting all of the com­
ponents. These sharable resources allow AI researchers to scale their small scale prototypes and
simulations on workstations to a more realistic environment. Using these resources, researchers
can evaluate performance of large scale experiments, process large data-sets in a reasonable
amount of time, integrate with numerical systems, and find means of efficiently assimilating
diverse sources of information.
November 23,1992 36
6. FINAL REMARKS
We have identified in this article many challenging applications and numerous issues that
need further study. These grand challenge