
a) Scaling and generalization across tasks. Scaling is related to the generalization of the
knowledge learned to more general tasks beyond those used in the process of knowledge acquisi­
tion. Many current methods are restricted in their ability to generalize across the same problem
of different sizes and different problems. A particularly difficult problem is the verification and
validation of the knowledge generalized.
b) Quality-efficiency trade-off. This issue is related to the cost of using the knowledge
learned and the effectiveness of the knowledge acquired. Their trade-off is often not well
defined; hence, the learning system may have to be designed so it can propose alternative forms
of the knowledge for different application conditions.
c) Learning in knowledge-rich and knowledge-lean environments. When the learning
environment has access to domain-dependent and domain-independent knowledge, it is neces­
sary to design a learning system that can utilize this knowledge to the best extent. On the other
November 23,1992 31
hand, when the domain is knowledge lean, the issue is to design a robust learning method that
can acquire the best knowledge in limited time. The learning system must be able to trade
between generation (sampling) and testing (confidence-building).
d) Resource constraints. Resource constraints are almost always important in any learning
situations. These constraints include real-time constraints, constraints on storage and computa­
tional power, and constraints on communication bandwidth. Recent studies have addressed
these issues but not many powerful methods have been found. Since the search space for learn­
ing methods may be unbounded, the designer of the learning system must trade between the
amount of high performance computing resources available for learning and the quality of the
knowledge learned.
e) Instrumentation of application environment for learning. Many learning situations may
involve physical instrumentation of the learning environment and possibly modification of stra­
tegies used in the application. This may not be acceptable, especially in an operational system.
A possible approach is to build a model or a prototype, learn new knowledge and strategies
based on the model, and verify the knowledge on the physical system. In many cases, building
the prototype can be as hard as building the original system itself. More efforts are needed on
applying learning methods in realistic environments.
5.2.2. Heuristic Search
Heuristic search through a problem space is an important problem solving paradigm in