 Chapin Linguistics
Su-Shing Chen Knowledge Models and Cognitive Systems
Bernard Chern Microelectronic Information Processing Systems
Y. T. Chien Information, Robotics, and Intelligent Systems
John H. Cozzens Circuits and Signal Processing
John D. Hestenes Interactive Systems
Richard Hirsch Supercomputer Center
Howard Moraff Robotics and Machine Intelligence
John Lehmann Microelectronic Information Processing Systems
Pen-Chung Yew Microelectronic Systems Architecture
Zeke Zalcstein Computer Systems Architecture
November 28,1992 ii
Publication and Distribution of this Report
1. Technical Report.
“Report of the Workshop on High Performance Computing and Communications for
Grand Challenge Applications: Computer Vision, Speech and Natural Language Pro­
cessing, and Artificial Intelligence,” Technical Report CRHC-92-26, Center for Reliable
and High Performance Computing, Coordinated Science Laboratory, University of Illi­
nois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, November 1992
To obtain a hard copy of this report, please send a letter or electronic mail to B. W. Wah
(journal@manip.crhc.uiuc.edu) requesting the above report. To obtain an electronic copy,
you can access the files by anonymous ftp from manip.crhc.uiuc.edu. The PostScript file
and the text file typed using ditroff and “me” macros are available in the directory
/pub/hpcc after you login as “anonymous.”
2. Journal Article.
“High Performance Computing and Communications for Grand Challenge Applications:
Computer Vision, Speech and Natural Language Processing, and Artificial Intelligence,”
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 5, No. 1, Feb. 1993.
3. Electronic Bulletin Boards.
The executive summary will be distributed in the following electronic bulletin boards, with
instructions for accessing the entire article by anonymous ftp.
comp.ai.vision comp.ai comp.ai.nlang-know-rep comp.ai.neural-nets
comp.parallel comp, arch comp.sys.super comp.realtime
comp, robotics comp.graphics comp.graphics.research
3. Electronic Mailing Lists.
The executive summary will be distributed in the following electronic mailing lists, with
instructions for