
Daniel P. Miranker University of Texas, Austin
Nelson H. Morgan *■ University of California, Berkeley
Sergei Nirenburg Camegie-Mellon University
Tomaso Poggio Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Edward M. Riseman University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Craig Stanfill Thinking Machines Corporation
Salvatore J. Stolfo Columbia University
Steven L. Tanimoto University of Washington
Charles Weems University of Massachusetts, Amherst
November 1992
This workshop was supported by National Science Foundation under grant IRI-9212592.
Any opinions, findings, conclusions, and recommendations expressed in this report are those of the authors and do
not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
November 23,1992 i
WORKSHOP PARTICIPANTS
Workshop Chair
Benjamin W. Wah University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Computer Vision Area
Thomas Huang (Area Vice Chair) University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
John Aloimonos University of Maryland, College Park
Ruzena K. Bajcsy University of Pennsylvania
Dana Ballard University of Rochester
Charles R. Dyer University of Wisconsin, Madison
Tomaso Poggio Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Edward M. Riseman University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Steven L. Tanimoto University of Washington
Speech and Natural Language Processing Area
Aravind K. Joshi (Area Vice Chair) University of Pennsylvania
Ralph Grishman New York University
Lynette Hirschman Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Stephen E. Levinson AT&T Bell Laboratories
Nelson H. Morgan University of California, Berkeley
Sergei Nirenburg Camegie-Mellon University
Craig Stanfill Thinking Machines Corporation
Artificial Intelligence and Computer Architecture Area
Dan Moldovan (Area Vice Chair) University of Southern California
Doug DeGroot Texas Instruments
Kenneth DeJong George Mason University
Scott E. Fahlman Camegie-Mellon University
Richard E. Korf University of California, Los Angeles
Daniel P. Miranker University of Texas, Austin
Salvatore J. Stolfo Columbia University *
Benjamin W. Wah University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
National Science Foundation Observers
Syed Kamal Abdali Numeric, Symbolic, and Geometric Computations
Paul G.