 and the communication and control pathways
between different homogeneous parallel processors.
November 23,1992 16
Last, but far from least, are the software issues. Software must be as easy to port from one
heterogeneous configuration to another as it is to move from one workstation to another. It
ought to be easy to program, taking advantage of the algorithmic simplifications that result from
a more direct mapping of the vision problem onto a suitably structured hardware platform. This
research will involve studies on languages and compilers, reusable and extensible libraries for
supporting multiple abstract machine models, real-time operating systems, and tools for support足
ing the use of heterogeneous parallel machines. It will also involve the development and tests of
vision software and algorithms on teraflop and scalable parallel supercomputers now becoming
available and on other HPCC systems to be developed. One important challenge is to develop
easy-to-use software that can adapt to different architectures and application requirements.
3.4. Infrastructure Support
The infrastructure needs of computer vision and its related applications are several: a)
abundant computational cycles, tools, and displays for the design and development of
application-specific vision systems; b) a variety of building blocks that can be configured for the
various applications requirements; and c) software infrastructure, image databases, and standards
of image communication to enable the community to move forward coherently.
To design a high-performance computer-vision system, it is necessary to narrow the gap
between what traditional supercomputers can offer and what is needed in computer vision appli足
cations to process pixel-level, intermediate-level, and symbolic-level tasks. It is important that
there be more joint efforts among members of the computer vision community and computer
architects. It is also critical that the cost of visual processing systems be reduced to the range of
#1K-#10K rather than 5100K-510 million. Such an engineering challenge may require a high-
technology production infrastructure quite different from that used to produce current-day super足
computers. It is also essential that tools be available for configuring substrates and facilities
(such as MOSIS) for fabricating them in sample lots at low cost. Finally, computer vision, as
part of AI, is a field where experimental algorithm development tends to be much more the criti足
cal bottleneck than computational power, in spite of