 corresponding sales
programs for airlines in order to negotiate the best times and fares for the traveler.
The grand technical challenge here is to provide a nationwide network that allows anyone
(hundreds of millions of users, businesses, institutions and individuals) to post requests for some
commodity (or financial investment) and to be matched with an optimal counterparty. Thus, at
each moment, many hundreds of millions of outstanding requests have to be matched with coun­
terparty offerers. One can list a multitude of enabling technologies needed to carry this out,
many impinging upon AI techniques. Essentially much knowledge needs to be brought to bare
on a “nationwide optimization problem” that is inherently distributed and very large.
5) Semantic integration and knowledge discovery. Besides collecting enormous amount of
data (from satellites, various sensors, laboratory data, etc.) and applying “complex numerical
modeling” and analysis techniques to that data, it is very important to consider the general
desideratum of “knowledge discovery.” An important and necessary grand challenge applica­
tion is the problem of merging multiple data/knowledge sources and of discovering new
knowledge from the merged sources. This involves much of what AI researchers have been
studying for many years: learning, reasoning and knowledge representation. The differences
November 23,1992 29
here, and consequently the grand challenges for AI, are: a) the scale of the problem is much
larger than anything attempted before in AI; b) means for integrating multiple knowledge
representations are important; c) methods for efficiently integrating multiple knowledge bases of
very large size are essential; and d) symbolic techniques need to be integrated effectively with
traditional numerical approaches.
6) Automatic knowledge acquisition. High performance AI systems will undoubtedly
require very large knowledge bases. Today, the construction of even small to medium
knowledge bases is a very time consuming process and often prevents the application of AI to
real-world problems. To overcome this deficiency, automation of knowledge-base construction
is needed. Knowledge may be acquired from the vast amount of information stored as texts.
Patterns of concepts and their semantic properties may then be extracted from text via natural
language parsing and learning techniques. Knowledge-classification and knowledge-base-
management techniques will need to be developed to support the incorporation of information
coming from diverse sources.
7) Intelligent planning and scheduling. This is a very large and economically important
area,