 user interface to the vision system) and a high­
speed network connecting computational resources across the system. Effective load balancing
would allow this system to be economically viable.
5) Multimedia and model-based compression. Computer vision can have a profound
impact in developing new image compression methods, which are critical for developing mul­
timedia and image dissemination techniques. The multimedia industry within 10 years is likely
to integrate two worlds that today are quite distinct: the world of communication and the world
of computers. It is expected to have significant impact in many areas, including education, visu­
alization for engineering, and entertainment.
The key technology in multimedia systems is signal compression and especially image
compression. From the technical point of view, the main challenge is to exploit computer vision
technologies of model-based recognition to achieve hypercompression, which is compression at
very high rates obtained by encoding only the parameters of models of objects identified in the
image (such as cultural objects). Well developed, “classical” image compression technologies,
especially in the area of model-based vision, can be significantly enhanced by the focused use of
computer vision algorithms.
6) Education. Computer vision technology will have an important role in education.
Image analysis techniques are part of several key tools to improve the widespread use of infor­
mation technology in the delivery of education. They have great potential to help author-
animators of visual materials integrate live action and animation. However, the full potential of
vision technologies in education will only be realized if major efforts are made to transfer the
technology of computer vision to the domain of digital-movie authoring tools. This requires the
development of many advanced technologies employing high-performance computing that are
beyond existing image-oriented packages for desk-top publishing.
A more ambitious direction is the development of intelligent tutoring systems that can pro­
cess speech and image data from a student, reason about the student’s understanding of material
in the subject domain, use stimulating and sensitive pedagogic strategies in the manner of a mas­
ter teacher, and utilize computer vision so that the system could visually perceive the human
with whom the system is interacting.
November 23,1992 8
Initially, one or more pilot studios should be assembled and connected to the National
Research and Educational Network (NREN). Eventually, an array of tools should be made
available so that anyone on NREN can use digital