 accessing the entire article by anonymous ftp.
ir-l@uccvma.bitnet supercomputer@nyu.edu
November 23,1992 1
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This article reports the findings of the Workshop on High Performance Computing and
Communications (HPCC) for Grand Challenge Applications: Computer Vision, Speech and
Natural Language Processing (SNLP), and Artificial Intelligence (AI). The goals of the
workshop are to identify applications, research problems, and designs of HPCC systems for sup­
porting applications in these areas.
In computer vision, we have identified the main scientific issues as machine learning, sur­
face reconstruction, inverse optics and integration, model acquisition, and perception and action.
Since vision algorithms operate in different levels of granularity, computers for supporting these
algorithms need to be heterogeneous and modular. Advances in technology, new architectural
concepts, and software design methods are essential for this area.
In SNLP, we have identified issues in statistical analysis in corpus-based speech and
language understanding, search strategies for language analysis, auditory and vocal-tract model­
ing, integration of multiple levels of speech and language analyses, and connectionist systems.
Similar to algorithms in computer vision, algorithms in SNLP require high computational power,
ranging from general purpose supercomputing to special purpose VLSI systems. As processing
has various requirements, a hybrid heterogeneous computer system is the most desirable.
In AI, important issues that need immediate attention include the development of efficient
machine learning and heuristic search methods that can adapt to different architectural
configurations, and the design and construction of scalable and verifiable knowledge bases,
active memories, and artificial neural networks. A computer system for supporting AI applica­
tions is heterogeneous, requiring research in high speed computer networks, mass storage and
efficient retrieval methods, computer languages, and hardware and software design tools.
Research in these areas is inherently multidisciplinary and will require active participation
of researchers in device and networking technologies, signal processing, computer architecture,
software engineering, and knowledge engineering. Besides extending current frontiers in
research, an important aspect to be emphasized is the integration of existing components and
results into working systems.
November 23,1992 2
2. INTRODUCTION
2.1. Origin of the Workshop
The idea of this workshop stemmed from the “Blue Book” 1 which identifies computing
and