 to account for differing
needs of users who wish to fine! tutorial material or to browse, and to organize searches
efficiently on thousands or tens of thousands of items on popular topics. -
2) Nation-wide job-bank. To help ensure that resources in the United States can be best
matched to the greatest needs, a national job and training database system would be very impor­
tant. Users with no computer skills can enter their work and skills profiles, scan job listings,
have their profiles automatically matched against employer postings, learn what training is
required to enter other fields, find sources of such training, and control the distribution and
matching of their profiles. Required technologies include SNLP, distributed computing, distri­
buted database technology, constraint satisfaction, agent modeling, and possibly intelligent and
interactive animation.
3) Tutoring system. To bolster our education system, we need to exploit recent technologi­
cal developments and develop intelligent and truly individualized tutoring systems for providing
November 23,1992 28
education on standard subjects. In addition to the computer-vision technologies discussed in
Section 2.1, a real-time interactive tutoring system will need to integrate new technologies such
as interactive multimedia systems, virtual reality, knowledge-based authoring systems, hyper­
text, and parallel processing.
4) Electronic market place. Providing a nation-wide electronic market place to bring sup­
pliers and consumers (or investors and offerers) together electronically offers enormous potential
for squeezing out inefficiencies in the retail, wholesale, and financial marketplaces. Reducing
these inefficiencies means enhanced competitiveness, and removing intermediaries or the “mid­
dle man” from the marketplace. The huge costs in doing business in this country can, therefore,
be greatly reduced, offering a relatively easy way for driving up productivity and enhancing the
gross national product. While this is not a new idea it has not been implemented at a large scale.
In such a system, both buyers and sellers of goods and services are represented by AI pro­
grams in the network, which find each other and negotiate prices and other details in order to
conclude the transactions. For instance, a customer wishing to purchase an airline ticket can
input into the system his or her utility function, encoding how much flexibility he or she has and
what he or she is willing to pay. The system then interacts directly with the