
computer vision, SNLP, and AI applications in general. It is a powerful "model of high-level rea­
soning and problem solving. Heuristic search algorithms fall into three main categories: single
agent problem, two-player games, and constraint satisfaction problems. Since heuristic search
techniques may require an unbounded amount of time, space, and other resources, it is critical to
develop efficient search techniques that use limited resources, and automated learning methods
for acquiring heuristic knowledge used in the search.
5.2.3. Scalable and verifiable knowledge-based systems
Scalability and verifiability are two important properties in symbolic systems. On one
hand, knowledge may be acquired incrementally and expert systems may need to be refined over
time. It is, therefore, important for such systems to be scalable when more knowledge is avail­
able. On the other hand, expert systems applied in life-critical systems, such as process control
November 23,1992 32
and sensor fusion, may need to be verified before they can be applied. Studies in developing
verification methods have been carried out in the past, but none have been successful to the
extent of software engineering. More work on knowledge engineering — the engineering
approach to acquire, verify, and maintain knowledge — needs to be done.
5.2.4. Construction and utilization of very large knowledge bases
Knowledge is an important element in AI systems. A desideratum is to build large
knowledge bases by the end of the decade with orders of magnitude increases in size and scope.
These knowledge bases may be used for storing information in the applications discussed earlier.
Issues on knowledge representation, knowledge-access methods, handling multiple views of the
same knowledge, user interface, and the relationship between knowledge-base management and
database management should be addressed.
5.2.5. Active memories
Some of the main problems with current AI systems are related to the use and access of
knowledge effectively. Since knowledge accessed in a particular context may be scattered in a
large knowledge base, the efficiency is low when a large knowledge base is implemented in an
existing system designed on the basis of locality of access. One solution to this problem is to use
active memories, which can support marker passing and value passing, and reasoning techniques
such as memory-based and case-based reasoning. This concept is consistent with the desire in
computer architecture to decrease the so