 Quintus Computer Systems, developers of
Quintus Prolog. In 1987, DeGroot joined the Computer Science Center of Texas Instruments in
Dallas, Texas, as Manager of the Parallel and System Architectures Branch. DeGroot is ex-
Chairman of ACM’s SIGARCH. He is on (or has served on) the Editorial Boards of IEEE
Expert, the Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, New Generation Computing, and the
November 23,1992 40
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems.
Kenneth A. DeJong is an Associate Professor of Computer Science and Associate Director
of the AI Center at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia. He received his Ph.D. degree
in Computer Science from the University of Michigan in 1975. Dr. DeJong’s research interests
include adaptive systems, machine learning, expert systems, and knowledge representation. He
is active in the Genetic Algorithms research community with a variety of papers, Ph.D. students,
and presentations. He is currently chair of the executive council of the Society of Genetic Algo­
rithms and Editor-in-chief of a new journal, Evolutionary Computation.
Charles R. Dyer received his Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of
Maryland, College Park, in 1979. He is currently Professor and Chair of the Computer Sciences
Department at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. His research interests in computer vision
include model-based image understanding, active and purposive vision, three-dimensional object
representations, spatiotemporal image analysis, and parallel algorithms and architectures for
vision. He has over 80 publications in these and other related areas of computer vision. Dr.
Dyer was an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on PAMI from 1987 to 1991, and is
currently on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Machine Vision and Applications. He is Pro­
gram Co-Chair of the 1992 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Computer Vision.
Scott E. Fahlman is a Senior Research Scientist in Carnegie Mellon University’s School of
Computer Science, where he has been on the faculty since 1978. His research interests include
AI and artificial neural networks. He has developed several new learning algorithms for neural
nets, including Quickprop and Cascade-Correlation. He has also been active in the development
of hardware and software tools for AI, including the Common Lisp language.