 especially for problems such as scheduling production lines to minimize bottlenecks and
delays, and planning flights for an airline to reduce overbooking and empty aircrafts. The prob­
lem here is similar to the problem in the electronic market place discussed above: find the best
match between demands and supplies. Some of these problems have been addressed before;
however, efficient solutions have not been found due to the facts that optimizations are often
beyond the limit of current supercomputers, and that experiments often involve perturbations of
existing systems that may not be acceptable in a working environment.
8) Medical diagnosis and informatics. This is an important application that requires the
integration of computer vision for analyzing medical images and the online storage and retrieval
of patient records, medical history, and expert knowledge. Solutions will require the develop­
ment of large knowledge bases interconnected by high bandwidth interconnection networks;
many of the design issues are similar to problems encountered in the development of an elec­
tronic librarian.
November 23,1992 30
5.2. Fundamental Science and Enabling Technologies
In this section, we describe six research issues. We start by presenting issues related to
machine learning and its implementations on high performance computing systems. In addition
to its prominence in AI, we have pointed out earlier the importance of machine learning in com­
puter vision and SNLP. This is followed by discussions on heuristic search and four important
enabling technologies that would aid in achieving success in basic research and application of
these results to realistically large problems. The key idea of these research issues is to embed AI
into “mainstream” systems in such a way that we can easily integrate AI with new systems and
allow it to coexist seamlessly with other HPCC applications.
5.2.1. Machine learning
Machine learning is an essential method for acquiring knowledge in AI. Besides the learn­
ing mechanisms discussed earlier in computer vision and SNLP, much recent work has focused
on sequential problems in decision, control, optimization, robotics, and planning. There are
numerous types of learning methods that learn by instruction, explanation, induction, deduction,
and analogy. Although many prototypes have been developed over the last forty years to test
different learning methods, there remain many open issues related to machine learning and com­
puter architecture. We list below a few important issues related to the implementation of
machine learning methods in high performance computing systems.