 and is a Fellow
Member of the AAAI.
Craig Stanfill received his Ph.D. from the University of Maryland in 1983 for work on
qualitative reasoning for Artificial Intelligence. Since then he has worked for Thinking
Machines Corporation, studying the use of massively parallel computers for a variety of tasks
including memory-based reasoning, statistical computing, database mining, information
retrieval, and relational databases. He is currently serving as secretary of ACM SIGIR.
Sal Stolfo is Associate Professor of Computer Science at Columbia University, where he
has been on the faculty since 1979. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from NYU’s
Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences. He has conducted research in the area of AI
knowledge-based systems and parallel processing. In 1982 he co-designed and developed ACE,
an expert system that integrated AI inference techniques with conventional database manage­
ment system. Stolfo also led the design and development of the DADO parallel computer spe­
cialized to run knowledge-based systems and signal interpretation tasks at high speeds. In 1983,
he established the Massively Parallel Computing focal project of the Center for Advanced Tech­
nology at Columbia University.
Steven L. Tanimoto is Professor of Computer Science and Engineering and Adjunct Profes­
sor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Washington in Seattle, having joined the
faculty in 1977. His research has concentrated on pyramidal data structures and the languages,
parallel architectures, and algorithms that work with them. Other projects are or have been con­
cerned with the use of pictures and diagrams to program and use computers and with the use of
image processing in mathematics education. Dr. Tanimoto served as Editor-in-Chief of the
November 23,1992 44
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence from 1986 to 1990. He is the
author of The Elements of Artificial Intelligence Using Common Lisp published by W.H. Free­
man in 1990.
Charles Weems received his B.S. and M.A. degrees from Oregon State University in 1977
and 1979, respectively, and his Ph.D. from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst in 1984.
All degrees are in Computer Science. Since 1984 he has been Director of the Parallel Image
Understanding Architectures Research Group at the University of Massachusetts, where he is an
associate professor. His research interests include parallel