 have far greater variances than those of numeric computations, requiring processor
structures oriented more toward latency toleration than latency hiding. Memory and I/O subsys­
tems will offer the opportunity to offload much of the repetitive computations from the CPU.
The interconnection network will need to support large amounts of nondeterministic accesses
and queries in knowledge processing and learning.
The design and evaluation of such systems may have to rely on expensive software simula­
tions in order to arrive at a proper trade-off between a software solution that maps the AI compu­
tations on existing parallel machines, and a hardware solution that requires the design of new
dedicated architectures.
November 23,1992 34
2) Supporting large knowledge bases. As we expect that future AI applications will
involve large knowledge bases, hardware and software supports for maintaining these
knowledge bases are very important. In these knowledge bases, reasoning techniques using the
knowledge stored may access information that is not localized in a particular storage media or
system. Moreover, the knowledge stored will evolve over time and may be revised by frequent
updates. Hence, important issues to be considered include the design of techniques for
knowledge-base partitioning and knowledge-base maintenance (such as update policies), and the
development of high-speed distributed computing systems, computer networks, and input/output
peripherals for supporting knowledge accesses.
3) Homogeneity versus heterogeneity. In many applications such as image and speech
understanding, symbolic AI processing and reasoning is done after intensive numeric computa­
tions take place. For these application areas one approach to high performance systems is to
design heterogeneous architectures that combine low-level numeric processing with high-level
reasoning. For other applications, it is seldom that one form of computer architecture is effec­
tive for the entire spectrum of algorithms. This phenomenon has been discussed earlier with
respect to grand challenge issues in computer vision and speech and natural language under­
standing. In such cases, it is desirable to have a heterogeneous architecture that has custom-
designed hardware for processing certain specialized tasks and general-purpose hardware for
carrying out the high-level reasoning and management tasks.
An important decision the systems designer must make is, therefore, the use of general-
purpose computers versus specialized accelerators. The system designer must understand the
computational requirements of AI processing and balance between the performance gains from
the specialized hardware