 One way to close the gap between special-purpose architectures
and general-purpose computers is to develop compilers that aid designers in mapping programs
on general purpose systems. This will allow designers to develop prototypes on general-purpose
systems that can be migrated later to special-purpose chips.
3) Easy access to high-performance computing systems. Research in this area will be
enhanced significantly when researchers have easy access to high-performance computing
centers through high-performance wide area networks. This allows not only the sharing of
expensive computing resources, but allows common on-line experiments to be conducted in real
time at multiple geographically distributed laboratories.
4. MIPS stands for million instructions per second. GIPS stands for giga-instructions per second.
November 23,1992 26
5. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
In the last two sections, we have discussed grand challenge issues for two important forms
of communicating information — computer vision, and SNLP. In general, communication takes
place in a shared context that extends well beyond vision or language itself; we see objects and
understand language because we share certain knowledge about how things behave in the world.
Hence, any vision or language interface that involves understanding requires that the system
have information about the “world” that it operates in. For limited domains, this information
may be static and highly restricted. However, many domains will require substantial knowledge
about the real world, an ability to reason about objects in this larger context, and an ability to
maintain an updated view of the world based on actions that either the system or the user has
performed. In addition, in complex problem solving situations, the system may plan how to
interact with a user or how to solve a problem. This means that computer vision and language
understanding are intimately tied to knowledge representation, reasoning, common-sense models
of the world, and planning. Without this information, a vision or language understanding system
may need to model sizable chunks of world knowledge.
Most AI systems are built from knowledge and search, and high-performance hardware can
make a big difference in how much knowledge can be collected and how much search can be
carried out. The exact nature of the hardware varies from one AI paradigm to another. There is
room for very general hardware architectures (for experimenting with new ideas) as well as very
specialized architectures, once the performance and cost requirements are defined.