 can perform some tasks that the human visual system can, and even go
beyond the capabilities of the human visual system in multimodality, speed, and reliability.
From the scientific viewpoint, the goal is to develop computational theories of vision, and by so
doing, gain insights into human visual perception.
Computer vision is related to other grand challenge areas because a) many applications,
such as video compression and human-machine interface, involve both vision and speech; and b)
AI techniques, such as knowledge-based reasoning, are needed in vision systems which must
operate in real-world domains.
3.1. Grand Challenge Applications
Grand challenge applications in computer vision fall in two classes. First, there are many
important applications in autonomous vision systems, most of which involve the interaction of
the vision system with the environment and humans. Examples of these applications include
flexible manufacturing, intelligent vehicle highway system, environmental monitoring, visual
prosthetics and rehabilitation robotics, multimedia and model-based compression, and education.
Second, there are many basic scientific application problems that can be studied using computer
vision techniques as invaluable tools. A prominent example is the visual understanding of tur­
bulence in fluid flow. In the following, we describe briefly some of these applications.
1) Flexible manufacturing. The manufacturing base is an important element to keep the
United States competitive at the turn of the 21st century. The next 20 years of manufacturing
will be characterized by ever faster changing products, with success determined by variability,
customized usage and low cost. The computer technologies that are now available indicate the
feasibility of achieving integrated and yet flexible manufacturing.
Computer vision is a critical enabling technology that allows cooperating robots to be
mobile and dexterous. This is important for effective flexible manufacturing of small batches of
customized parts, which may require functionalities and capabilities that are distributed across
multiple robot agents. This poses challenging issues in multi-agent cooperation, many of which
will require real-time perception.
November 23,1992 6
Distributed active vision for specialized manufacturing tasks is another important element
in flexible manufacturing. This allows software-configured logical connections between
factory-based sensors and a diverse collection of (remote) supercomputers that perform special­
ized vision tasks as required by the particular manufacturing process. This would certainly take
advantage of high-bandwidth networks as well as computer-vision technologies.
2) Intelligent Vehicle Highway