 Urbana-Champaign. His current research interests are in areas relating parallel and distri­
buted processing and AI. His major focus is on the development of efficient resource manage­
ment schemes for machine learning and search, with applications in operating systems, neural
networks, computer vision, and genetic algorithms. He is a Fellow of the IEEE, is Editor-in-
Chief of IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, and serves as a member of
the IEEE Computer Society Board of Governors.
Thomas S. Huang is a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and a Research
Professor at the Coordinated Science Laboratory and the Beckman Institute, University of Illi­
nois at Urbana-Champaign. His current research interests are in image processing and computer
vision, especially time-varying image processing and dynamic scene analysis. He is a Fellow of
the IEEE and the Optical Society of America; Area Editor for Motion of the international journal
CVGIP: Image Understanding, and an Editor of the Springer Series in Information Sciences. He
served as the Chairman of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Pattern Analysis
and Machine Intelligence, 1989-91, and received the Technical Achievement Award (1987) and
the Society Award (1991) of the IEEE Signal Processing Society.
Aravind K. Joshi is the Henry Salvatori Professor of Computer and Cognitive Science at the
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. His research is in the areas of computational
linguistics, mathematical and processing models of language, AI, and cognitive science. He is a
Fellow of IEEE, a Past President of the Association for Computational Linguistics, and a Found­
ing Fellow of the AAAI. At present he is a Co-director of the Institute for Research in Cognitive
Science, a NSF Science and Technology Center, at the University of Pennsylvania.
Dan /. Moldovan received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering and Com­
puter Science from Columbia University, New York, NY, in 1974 and 1978, respectively. He is
an Associate Professor of Computer Engineering at the University of Southern California. His
primary research interests are in the fields of parallel processing and AI. Moldovan is the Direc­
tor of the Parallel Knowledge Processing Laboratory where a parallel computer for AI applica­
tions is being built.
November 23,1992 39
Yiannis Aloimonos studied Mathematics