PMD3 mode). Communication in low-level processing can also take advan­
tage of a great deal of locality inherent in image structures, while at the intermediate level the
communication involves parallel global searches and reduction operations.
At the high level, there are further differences: computations are coarse-grained, have
independent control threads and communication, and may need spatially disparate processing.
At this level, computation may have to be carried out at several different locations in a distri­
buted fashion. One aspect of using distributed computing in this level is the transmission and
management of huge amounts of image data.
It is, therefore, clear that vision cannot be mapped efficiently onto a homogeneous parallel
processor. Yet efficiency is a key concern in almost all vision applications, most of which
require small, lightweight, low-power, low-cost, real-time embedded processors that serve as
powerful research tools as well as engines driving vision applications in the commercial and the
military markets. These issues, and especially that of real-time processing, are generally
neglected by the traditional architecture community, which focuses on large homogeneous paral­
lel systems with a strong emphasis on double precision floating-point and vector performance.
High performance systems for computer vision lie at two ends of a wide spectrum of paral­
lel architectures where research needs to be focused. The first one is the class of parallel super­
computers with distributed memory and a large number of coarse-grain processing elements.
Examples include Thinking Machines Corporation’s CM5 and Intel’s Paragon. These systems
are useful tools in research as well as in production applications that are extremely data intensive
but do not require real-time responses (such as processing satellite and aerial imagery). The
second type consists of special-purpose (digital and possibly analog) VLSI chips, such as focal-
plane processors, for very specific, real-time vision tasks. This would allow computer vision to
enter the commercial market in areas such as consumer electronics, multimedia systems, optical
character recognition, surveillance, and driver assistant. It will also have military applications
for smart weapons, ATR (automatic target recognition), and autonomous surveillance vehicles.
2. GOPS stands for giga-operations per second. TOPS stands for tera-operations per second.
3. SIMD stands for single-instruction-multiple-data-stream. SPMD