.
Sergei Nirenburg is Senior Research Computer Scientist at the Center for Machine Transla足
tion, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA. He received
his Ph.D. in Linguistics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel. He has written or
edited four books and has published over 60 articles in various areas of computational linguistics
and AI, including machine translation, natural language understanding and generation,
knowledge acquisition, intelligent interfaces, planning and cognitive modeling. Since 1987 he
has served as Editor-in-Chief of Machine Translation, and since 1991, as First Vice President of
the American Machine Translation Association. Dr. Nirenburg has directed many large research
and development projects on machine translation and natural language processing.
Tomaso Poggio is the Uncas and Helen Whitaker Professor in the Department of Brain and
Cognitive Sciences at M.I.T. He is known for his pioneering work on stereo vision, for his work
on the application of regularization theory to the problem of early vision, and more recently, for
the development of a new theory of learning and networks. He is Co-Director of the Center for
Biological Information Processing at M.I.T., where he pursues the understanding of information
processing in the brain. He is a Corporate Fellow of Thinking Machines Corporation and has
won many awards. He has written over 200 papers in the areas of AI, computer vision, biologi足
cal information processing, learning, and nonlinear systems theory. He is a Fellow of the AAAJ,
November 23,1992 43
and an Associate of the Neuroscience Research Program at Rockefeller University.
Edward M. Riseman received his Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from Cornell
University in 1969. He is currently Professor of Computer Science at the University of Mas足
sachusetts, where he has conducted research in computer vision, AI, learning, and pattern recog足
nition. Since 1976, he has been the Director of the Computer Vision Laboratory with current
projects in know ledge-based scene interpretation, motion analysis, mobile robot navigation and
parallel architectures for real-time vision. He has applied the analysis of static and dynamic
images to a variety of domains, including vehicle navigation in outdoor terrain, industrial
manufacturing environments, and satellite photointerpretation. He is on the Editorial Boards of
CVGIP: Image Understanding, the International Journal of Computer Vision,