 the tremendous need for cycles. Therefore,
support for developing new vision-oriented software tools, as well as support for generic
software infrastructure, is extremely important. Part of such software development efforts need
to be directed at achieving at least a modicum of community consensus (a la DARPA Image
Understanding benchmarks) in order to have their desired impact across the community.
November 23, 1992 17
4. SPEECH AND NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING
The goal of SNLP is to process speech and natural language in real time in order to achieve
natural, fluent human/machine communication. HPCC related research in this area will lead
directly to developments that will revolutionize the modes of our communication with each other
as well as with machines, and our ways of using and sharing vast amounts of information either
in a monolingual or in a multi-lingual environment.
SNLP is strongly related to computer vision. Vision, proprioception, and controlled motion
help understand the model of the world and extract the meaning from spoken messages. For
instance, computer vision can be considered as a front-end for identifying characters in text, if
presented in written form, before they are processed. This in itself is a computationally demand­
ing task similar to the acoustic/phonetic-recognition stage in speech recognition, especially when
the text is handwritten in cursive script. At present, the technology for this task is no more
advanced than that of recognizing colloquial discourse. Computer vision is also a crucial front-
end for scanning and for storing bit maps when information is presented in printed form. In this
case, semantic analysis is needed to analyze the images in order to extract the underlying struc­
ture and to connect the scattered columns of text that make up the printed articles (such as news­
paper and magazine).
Spoken language (speech) also shares many common aspects with written language in
terms of the lexicon, syntax, and semantics. Since all these features are necessary to accomplish
automatic recognition of handwritten or printed language, studies of speech processing are appli­
cable to those of the written language. Moreover, the computational complexities of the
linguistic-analysis algorithms for both areas are similar.
Speech is an important component when integrated with other communication media —
sound, still images, moving images, and text — in multimedia systems. It is expected that infor­