 Each feature-extraction process
can take from tens of operations (simple edge detection) to many thousands of operations (tex­
ture discrimination). Thus low level processing alone could easily consume anywhere from 5
GOPS2 (one simple process for a medium-resolution stereo-image stream) to 10 TOPS2 (ten
processes with an average complexity of 5000 operations on a high-resolution stereo-image
stream).
The above example illustrates that there are different levels of processing in a vision task.
In general, tasks in a vision system fall into roughly three categories: low-level, intermediate-
level, and high-level; each of which has different processing requirements and needs different
architectural supports.
In low-level processing, only a small percentage of the operations involve floating point
calculations (generally 32-bit); most are 1-bit, 8-bit, and 16-bit integer arithmetic and require
communications that exploit locality. The development of computers that support these features
is not the primary focus of many current architecture efforts, which instead target machines
mainly used by the scientific and engineering communities.
Beyond low-level processing, there usually are one or more intermediate levels that
emphasize symbolic processing of the feature information extracted from sensory data. This
hierarchy allows the information to be organized so that matches with high-level structures in
the knowledge base can occur efficiently. Intermediate-level processing may require many
diverse operations for organizing many local features into structures and for matching them to
projected model data. These diverse operations involve computations such as spatial geometric
relations, linking symbolic representations of features into graph structures, transforming graph
representations of models (via shifting, rotating, scaling, and warping operations), and determin­
ing subgraph isomorphisms and confidence measures of matches.
Most intermediate-level processing involves 16- and 32-bit integer arithmetic, some 32-bit
floating point arithmetic, and lots of graph-traversal and database-search operations. Again,
these are not typical of general-purpose computers. More importantly, the computation,
November 24,1992 14
communication and control differ significantly from that of low-level processing. In low-level
vision, the control mechanisms involve one or a small number of threads (in SIMD3 mode),
while intermediate-level processing is better characterized by a large number of highly orches­
trated threads (in S