 System (IVHS). Computer vision is a key technology for
developing better highways to improve mobility, safety, capacity, and efficiency of our surface
transportation system. The strategic plan developed by the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Society
of America calls for advanced technologies that provide traffic management as well as driver-
assist and autonomous capabilities on vehicles. Autonomous vision-based systems for high­
speed vehicle control have already been tested in laboratories. These systems can provide driver
warning to help detect and avoid collisions for unanticipated emergencies in poor driving condi­
tions. An advanced concept considered is the design of high-speed convoys in special
automated lanes that function safely and efficiently in various weather conditions.
3) Environmental monitoring. An important part of the grand challenge problem in com­
puter vision is the monitoring of earth resources and points of interest via satellite and aerial
reconnaissance. Changing resources and their effects on earth, such as the loss of rain forests
leading to global warming effects, need to be monitored closely. Others, such as the monitoring
of points of military interest, are important for our national defense. Integrated space-based
sensing systems would perform complex resource allocation, balancing the capabilities of distri­
buted monitors such as satellites with the needs of individual problems. The advent of comput­
ing resources, with computing power of at least 10,000 times better than existing systems, prom­
ises to make important parts of this essential task feasible.
4) Visual prosthetics and rehabilitation robotics. Intelligent machines and “assistive
robots” capable of perception can benefit tremendously the blind and severely disabled individu­
als. Although the need remains clear, their widespread use has been overshadowed by cost and
complexity. Ideas considered include: a) a vision system that can monitor human whereabouts;
b) a vision system that can keep track of the users’ environment (objects, freeways, and tasks); c)
a computer-vision-initiated assistant that can be invoked “intelligently” without user interven­
tion, and d) a vision system that can guide a blind user to objects and landmarks of interest in the
environment.
November 23,1992 7
An “assistive workstation” capable of accepting requests to interpret a scene will be
invaluable for patients beyond rehabilitation. Such a system can be designed around a
computer-vision subsystem (with an intelligent