/Collapse)
Values: These are the intrinsic goods or ideals that people pursue or cherish, such as happiness, well-being, justice, or freedom. Values are the
desirable qualities that people may seek in their lives and in the world. They are often the guiding principles for individuals and societies, shaping goals,
motivations, and preferences.
Rights: Rights are the entitlements or claims that individuals have against others or society, which are usually based on moral or legal grounds.
These can be positive rights (e.g., the right to education, healthcare, or free speech) or negative rights (e.g., the right to not be harmed, enslaved, or
discriminated against). Rights serve to protect the fundamental interests of individuals and establish certain boundaries that others must respect.
Duties: Duties are the moral obligations or responsibilities that individuals owe to others or to society at large. They are categorical reasons for
doing or refraining from doing something, independent of whether we want to do or refrain from doing that thing. Duties can be weighty reasons, not
easily overridden by competing concerns, and their violation may justify blame and self-blame (guilt). Duties can arise from relationships, social roles,
or moral principles, and they guide our actions and decisions.
You'll evaluate the output (marked in purple) in two steps:
Task 1: Evaluate Relevance
For each action, you will be presented with values, rights, and duties that may make sense to consider when determining the morality of the action (see definitions
above). Your job is to determine if these factors are relevant for the action.
Task 2: Evaluate Explanation
Next, you'll see an explanation for how the value, right, or duty might connect to the action. Your job is to determine if this explanation is high-quality and effective at
making a connnection to the action.
Task 3: Evaluate Support or Opposition
Finally, there will be a guess a guess for each factor on whether it supports doing the action, opposes doing the action, or could either support or oppose the
action depending on the interpretation or context. Your job is to determine if this guess is correct.
Note: If you're unsure, go with your instincts. If you find yourself not coming across many bad examples, that's okay - it might just be the luck of the draw.
We appreciate your attention to detail and