 is strongly
advised.
WARNING Current employees of the University of Washington, family members of UW employees, and UW students
involved in this particular research are not eligible to complete this HIT.
Thanks for participating in this HIT!
This task is still under development. Please let us know if we can make the task clearer as you complete these HITs. Some HITs may be
ambiguous but just answer to the best of your abilities.
Given a situation you will be asked to compare the ability of two different AI systems to come up with values, rights, and duties that are
relevant to this situation.
values: These are the intrinsic goods or ideals that people pursue or cherish, such as happiness, well-being, justice, or freedom.
Values are the desirable qualities that people may seek in their lives and in the world. They are often the guiding principles for
individuals and societies, shaping goals, motivations, and preferences.
rights: Rights are the entitlements or claims that individuals have against others or society, which are usually based on moral or
legal grounds. These can be positive rights (e.g., the right to education, healthcare, or free speech) or negative rights (e.g., the right
to not be harmed, enslaved, or discriminated against). Rights serve to protect the fundamental interests of individuals and establish
certain boundaries that others must respect.
duties: Duties are the moral obligations or responsibilities that individuals owe to others or to society at large. They are categorical
reasons for doing or refraining from doing something, independent of whether we want to do or refrain from doing that thing.
Duties can be weighty reasons, not easily overridden by competing concerns, and their violation may justify blame and self-blame
(guilt). Duties can arise from relationships, social roles, or moral principles, and they guide our actions and decisions.
You will be asked to compare 2 AI systems, system A and system B across 3 dimensions:
Correctness: Which system provides a more accurate list of responses? For example, if system A contains more errors, or
responses that are not relevant to the given situation, then you should select system B as the winner.
Completeness: Which system provides a more comprehensive list of responses? You should ignore correctness when answering
this questions, and only consider which system covers more of the important values, rights, and duties that are relevant to the
situation.
Overall