 trackers overcome
significant problems.
The most representative long-term object tracker is TLD [15], which is di-
vided into tracking (T), learning (L), and detection (D). In the tracking part,
the tracker predicts the position of the target object based on the median-flow
4 Seokeon Choi, Junhyun Lee, Yunsung Lee and Alexander Hauptmann
tracker [14]. In the detection part, the detector judges the existence of the tar-
get in a cascade manner over the entire area of the image. Assuming that the
trackeranddetectorcanfail,thelearningmoduleestimateserrorsbasedonP-N
learning and trains the trackers and detectors more robustly.
Due to its good performance in both accuracy and speed, various object
trackers based on Siamese networks have been proposed. One of those meth-
ods, MMLT [21], is designed for long-term tracking to handle visual deforma-
tion and target disappearance. In the tracking step, to accommodate changes in
the visual appearance, the target position is estimated by the Siamese features
obtained from short-term and long-term memory stores inspired by Atkinson-
Shiffrin Memory Model (ASMM) [2]. In the re-detection step, the target is de-
tected in the entire image without the dependency of the previous position. In
particular, the coarse-to-fine strategy is adopted for improving speed.
Tracking by re-detection paradigm [3,4,12,22] has a long history, but re-
detection is challenging due to the existence of distractor objects that are very
similartothetemplateobject.SiamR-CNN[30],anadaptationofFasterR-CNN
[27] with a Siamese architecture, has two key methods. First, they introduced a
hardexampleminingprocedurewhichtrainsthere-detectorspecificallyfordiffi-
cultdistractors.Secondly,dynamicprogrammingisusedtoselectthebestobject
in the current time step based on the complete history of all target objects and
distractor object tracklets(short object tracks). While being resistant to tracker
drift and being able to immediately re-detect object after the disappearance,
Siam R-CNN is able to effectively perform long-term object tracking