.
3 Proposed Method
3.1 Baseline Short-Term Tracker
We propose an improved Discriminative Model Prediction method for robust
long-term tracking based on a pre-trained short-term tracker. Our baseline pre-
trained short-term tracker is SuperDiMP 1 combining the bounding-box regres-
sorofPrDiMP[11]withthestandardDiMPclassifier[6]forbettertrainingand
inference.
3.2 Uncertainty Reduction using Random Erasing
Wefocusonrobustness,whichistheconsistentgeneralization(tracking)ability,
particularly against the artifact of background features. The robust model can
consistently track the target whatever occurs in the background, even whenever
weremovesomeregionofbackground.Weconsideruncertaintyasanagreement
(or consistency) and estimate the location of the target from multiple images
after erasing random small rectangular areas. Because the target usually has
a small portion of the whole image, even though we remove a small area, the
targetmightberarelyremoved.Ifthepredictionofourmodelchangeswhenthe
1 The pre-trained model is provided at https://github.com/visionml/pytracking.
RLT-DiMP 5
Fig.1.(a)illustratesourassumptionthatthepredictionoftherandomlyerasedimage
will be changed when the prediction is affected by background features or vice versa.
(b)illustratestheconceptofhowtoreducetheuncertaintyandcorrecttheprediction.
smallregionofbackgroundisrandomlydeleted,thepredictionisaffectedbythe
background, so we can say that the certainty is low. Adapting this assumption,
we correct the flag of our model according to the agreement.
3.3 Random Search with Spatio-Temporal Constraints
Generalshort-termtrackerscanonlyfindthetargetifitisincludedinthesearch-
ing area. Accordingly, global re-detection capacity is required for robust long-
termtrackingtodealwithocclusionsandtargetdisappearances.Mostlong-term
trackers adopt the global sliding window method, as shown in Fig. 2. However,
this approach not only requires high computation costs, but is not robust. To
tackle this problem, we propose a robust random search method with