
thepredictionaccordingly.Theestimatedlocationofthetarget,whichisrobust
againstthebackgroundnoise,wouldnotbechangedevenifweremoveacertain
small area of the background. If the estimation is not robust then it would
be changed and not reliable even though the confidence score is high. In view
of these characteristics, our model estimates the location of the target from
multiple images with randomly erased the small rectangular area. Secondly, we
utilize spatio-temporal constraints to adjust the confidence score for robust re-
detection.Whenthetargetre-appearafterocclusionordisappear,thetime-space
gap should be related in physical. For instance, if the estimated location of the
target that re-appears in a short time is far from the last observation location,
wecansaythattheestimationisunreliable.Tooffsetthedistortionofbothtime
and space and to make a robust estimation as a result, we explicitly adjust the
confidence score by penalizing it. Finally, we perform background augmentation
for more discriminative feature learning in the online stage.
Section 2 provides a brief description of existing short- and long-term track-
ers. In Section 3, we explain the details about how our approach can handle the
robustness issues of long-term trackers. The experimental results with analysis
and the conclusion are in Section 4 and 5, respectively.
2 Related Work
2.1 Short-term object tracking
Visualobjecttracking(VOT)isatasktotrackanobjectinavideowhenthefirst
frameboundingboxofthetargetobjectisgiven.Anumberofdeepconvolutional
RLT-DiMP 3
neuralnetwork(DCNN)basedstudieshavebeenconducted,suchasMDNet[26]
and FCNT [31], showing successful results in the VOT Challenge [17]. Among
DCNN-based studies, Siamese architecture [5,23,30,32,22] satisfies end-to-end
training capabilities while also showing high efficiency [16,18]. DiMP [6] and
PrDiMP [11], motivated from the idea of ATOM [9] that solved the limited
targetestimationproblemofthepreviousstudies,arealsoSiamesearchitecture-
based model that showed performance improvement in the V