CoV-2
testsbecausepatientscanremainhospitalizedforseveraldays,butthecurveisdiscontinuousbecausestates
have changed the procedures for reporting this number over the course of the epidemic.
As expected from mechanics of epidemic spread, both the number of positive tests and the estimated
incidence were initially higher in the states with a higher population density than in the states with a lower
population density (see Fig. 3 for a depiction of population densities). For example, the estimate of daily
incidence in NY reached a peak in mid-April, while the estimates of daily incidence in AZ and TX have
slowly increased over time. More recently, states such as MN, NV, AZ, TX, and FL have seen an uptick in
the rate of positive test counts — according to our model, NV had the greatest level of epidemic spread.2
Finally, many of the curves of the estimated incidence grow at a slower rate than the rate of increase
in the number of positive test results. This could happen for two reasons which cannot be distinguished
without representative community testing: (1) either testing availability is expanding at a faster rate than
the true epidemic is spreading, or (2) the true value of c(t) is decreasing over time. These explanations are
not mutually exclusive, and in fact, (2) is likely to be a consequence of (1). We expect that the value of c(t)
is decreasing over time because testing availability is increasing, and thus the curve of true incidence does
not follow any one of the curves plotted for a fixed c(t). As the testing availability continues to increase and
moreserologystudiesfurtherclarifythevalueofc(t),estimatesoftheincidencecanbemadewithincreasing
accuracy.
2ThenumberofpositivetestsareunreliableinMNinearlyJune,soitisdifficulttoinfertheextentoftheepidemicspread
inthatstate.
2
tnuoC
tnuoC
tnuoC
tnuoC
tnuoC
tnuoC
tnuoC
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.07.09.20141762; this version posted July 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder,