 (Figure 3b, c). A “comment”
England, and our results on disease prevention posts were is indicative of a high engagement level because it requires the
consistent with this study. In line with previous studies, our user to read a post and respond to it [88] but the interpretation
results also revealed the strong effect of the narrative style on of a “like” is subject to change depending on the context. For
public engagement [23,46,55,57,58]. A narrative style of example, one study suggested that a “like” is indicative of a
communication fosters the public’s identification and emotional lower engagement level [82], although within the context of
involvement through the character’s sharing in a story event epidemic communication, a “like” might be perceived as a user’s
[54,58]. Through this, health narratives can possibly raise the approval of the post’s importance. In view of this, both “likes”
public’s awareness of health risks and encourage them to take and “comments” are regarded as good indicators of health risk
actions to curb the spread of the disease [13,23,25,55,60]. communication.
A previous study has demonstrated an interaction effect between Second, People’s Daily’s approach of predominantly employing
content and style [68], and therefore, we expected an interaction new evidence posts disseminated in a nonnarrative style in
between these two dimensions. Indeed, our data showed a COVID-19 communication was not perceived as the ideal
significant interaction between content and style on the number strategy to engage the public. We have gained insights into the
of likes (Table 2). With respect to the interaction between the subdimensions that can effectively enhance public engagement
subdimensions, our results showed that more shares were with epidemic communication; for instance, disease prevention
generated for posts related to disease prevention, reassurance, posts delivered in a narrative style are viewed favorably. It is
and uncertainty(Figure 2a) delivered in a narrativestyle (Figure imperative for health organizations, governments, and
2d). Links to external sourcesand use of multimediawere also researchers to use the public’s preferred subdimensions to
positive predictors of the number of shares (Table 2). A “share” increase the number of shares, comments,