 and likes with a view
indicates a high engagement level because it involves a cognitive to effectively disseminating new epidemic information.
action of disseminating the post to others, which can potentially
One of the limitations of this study pertains to the sampling
reach a large audience [82-84]. Disease prevention is
period. Because we only captured the posts from a certain period
fundamental in a new epidemic [40-42] and uncertainty needs
of time, the results might vary in different time periods of an
to be addressed because, by indicating what is unknown, more
evolving epidemic. Our developed framework on COVID-19
transparency of information is provided, thereby helping to
communication with the public can be further empirically tested
build trust [14,43]. The public has a tendency to rely on social
to assess the strength of the three dimensions and applied to
media during crises as the sites offer emotional support [85-87],
other cultural contexts. As social media are frequently accessed
indicating that the communication of uncertainty and reassurance
by young people while there are demographics that still use
might have served the purposes of offering emotional support
traditional mass media in different ways, COVID-19
and allaying anxiety. Our novel findings regarding the
communication can be examined in terms of impact through
interaction between the subdimensions provide important
other channels of behavior or practice too. An investigation into
insights for enhancing public engagement in epidemic
the use of other popular social media platforms such as WeChat
communication on social media.
in China to disseminate COVID-19 information can be
Implications, Limitations, and Future Work conducted to gain more insights into this topic.
This study contributes to the understanding of what drives the Conclusions
public to be engaged with COVID-19 communication by the
In summary, this study presents a novel, comprehensive
government and adds to the body of knowledge on public
framework of the factors that engage the public in COVID-19
engagement with epidemic communication on social media.
communication by the government on social media through
First, our integrated, comprehensive framework of public
empirically testing the measures of health content frames, style
engagement with government health communication regarding
of messages, and interactive features. By drawing on this
COVID-19 in China was empirically tested. People’s Daily
knowledge and harnessing the power of social media,
currently has 117