 subdimensions (independent variables) and the public’s
content as actionbased on the dominant content topic, style as
responses in terms of the count number of shares, comments,
narrativebased on the dominant use of narrative sentences, and
and likes (dependent variables), we first employed Poisson
interactive loop as use of hashtagsbased on the dominant use
regression, a count regression model in SPSS [78,79]. However,
of hashtags. If the count of sentences or interactive features was
real-world data sets are commonly known to violate the
the same, the primary coder checked the title, topic sentences,
assumption in the Poisson regression with respect to
and context of the post to determine the dominant category.
overdispersion of outcome variables [80]. As expected, such a
To address RQ2 and 3, we recorded the number of shares, violation was detected in our data set, and thus, we followed
comments, and likes of the sampled posts to investigate the the common practice of replacing Poisson regression with the
relationship between People’s Daily communication and its NB2 [80] to improve the goodness of fit, especially Akaike
impact on public engagement. Regarding the negative binomial information criterion and bayesian information criterion. NB2
regression (NB2) analysis, the coding results of RQ1 were is effective in fitting various types of data arising in technical
adopted to investigate the effect of all subdimensions on public and communication research [81], and NB2 is a more general
engagement. The number of shares, comments, and likes in model that relaxes the strong assumption that the underlying
RQ2 and 3 were also included for statistical analyses. rate of the outcome is the same for each included participant
[81].
Intercoder Reliability
The coding was conducted by the third author (the primary Results
coder) and a well-trained coder who all possess a postgraduate
degree in communication. To ensure intercoder reliability on In response to RQ1 regarding the differences in the frequencies
the coding of dimensions, subdimensions, and public of each subdimension’s use in the communication of
engagement, the coder was repeatedly trained on the coding COVID-19–related news by the official social media, we found
scheme. Any disagreement between the author and coder was that