 use of hashtags, use of
questions to solicit feedback, and use of multimedia. Public engagement was measured in the form of the number of shares,
comments, and likes on the People’s Daily’s Sina Weibo account from January 20, 2020, to March 11, 2020, to reveal the
association between different levels of public engagement and communication strategies. A one-way analysis of variance followed
by a post-hoc Tukey test and negative binomial regression analysis were employed to generate the results.
Results: We found that although the content frames of action, new evidence, and reassurance delivered in a nonnarrative style
were predominant in COVID-19 communication by the government, posts related to new evidence and a nonnarrative style were
strong negative predictors of the number of shares. In terms of generating a high number of shares, it was found that disease
prevention posts delivered in a narrative style were able to achieve this purpose. Additionally, an interaction effect was found
between content and style. The use of a narrative style in disease prevention posts had a significant positive effect on generating
comments and likes by the Chinese public, while links to external sources fostered sharing.
Conclusions: These results have implications for governments, health organizations, medical professionals, the media, and
researchers on their epidemic communication to engage the public. Selecting suitable communication strategies may foster active
liking and sharing of posts on social media, which in turn, might raise the public’s awareness of COVID-19 and motivate them
to take preventive measures. The sharing of COVID-19 posts is particularly important because this action can reach out to a large
audience, potentially helping to contain the spread of the virus.
http://www.jmir.org/2020/8/e21360/ J Med Internet Res 2020 | vol. 22 | iss. 8 | e21360 | p. 1
XSL FO (page number not for citation purposes)
•
RenderX
JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INTERNET RESEARCH Ngai et al
(J Med Internet Res 2020;22(8):e21360) doi: 10.2196/21360
KEYWORDS
COVID-19; communication; public engagement; social media; infodemiology; infodemic; message style; health content frames;
interactive features; framework; content analysis
detection,