particular, quantitative analysis is introduced to reveal the statistical patterns regarding how
intertextuality is manifested in corporate leader messages in different cultures.
In terms of the value of this study, we believe that students taking ESP business, public relations
and communication courses at universities would benefit from receiving training in cross-
cultural corporate communication with tasks that simulate the real world with regards to the
types of intertextuality used, the sources of information that are often preferred and how
5
intertextuality is manifested in the move structure of leaders’ messages in different cultures.
Corporate communication and public relations practitioners would gain insights on how they
should structure the messages for corporate leaders so as to project a certain image that is
aligned with their communicative purposes. Our study also contributes to a novel and informed
understanding of how texts are constructed with intertextual references in the professional
corporate communication context.
This study focuses on global corporations in the United States and the PRC since these
countries are the two world leading economic superpowers and due to increased trade between
these countries and other countries worldwide, it is worth examining how the linguistic
manifestations of intertextuality are revealed in leaders’ messages of these global corporations.
We focus on Fortune Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC because leaders in these
corporations are expected to regularly communicate with their stakeholders who include not
only shareholders but also the general public.
This paper is structured as follows. We review the key studies on intertextuality including the
types, sources of reference and the move structure where intertextuality is exhibited. The mixed
method research approach is then presented previous to the findings, an interpretation of the
findings and the implications of the study.
2. Conceptual framework
This section delineates the conceptual framework that has informed the current study. It first
briefly describes the different types of intertextuality and in particular, the types that are
analysed in this study. This will be followed by a discussion of how the source of intertextuality
6
may be manifested linguistically as well as the intertextual references employed in specific
moves in corporate leader messages.
2.1 The notion and types of intertextuality
Intertextuality is an umbrella term used to refer to the links that a text has with a prior one.
Since its introduction by Kristeva (1969), there has been a plethora of studies conducted to
explore intertext