 company stakeholders in general,
resulting in 34(62%) companies from the PRC and 41 (53%) from the US. The abundant
presence of leaders’ messages on the easily accessible page (i.e. more than half of the US
companies and nearly two-thirds that of PRC) indicated the popularity of this discursive
practice in corporate communication, thereby confirming the importance of our investigation.
A list of 75 (58%) out of 132 Fortune Global 500 companies that employed leaders’ messages
as their communication tool with 34 companies from the PRC and 41 from the US was
compiled, creating a corpus of 114,100 words (see Table 1 for the names and corresponding
ranks of the selected companies from the US and PRC).
15
Table 1. Names and corresponding ranks of the selected 2017 Global 500 companies in
the US and PRC
16
3.3 Data Mining
Our research questions required a combination of quantitative and qualitative analyses. We
coded 75 messages on a sentence basis for content analysis and statistical examination. A total
of 1902 sentences were coded.
Concerning the first set of research questions (RQ1), we reconstructed the coding scheme of
the five types of intertextuality identified from the literature review. Drawing on Fairclough’s
(1992c) conceptualization of boundary-marked and boundary-unmarked as two guidelines for
detecting intertextual traces and Bazerman’s (2004) typology of intertextuality as a method to
examine intertextuality, we reconstructed the typology based on Bazerman’s (2004) types of
intertextuality but excluded type 4: comments or evaluation of a statement or text, because our
focus was on the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality in leaders’ messages rather than an
interpretation or evaluation of the content. We therefore reconstructed a system of five
intertextual types based on the degree of explicitness whenever reference was made to an earlier
text in our investigation of the intertextual practices in leaders’ messages in Global 500
corporations in the US and PRC. This approach to schematize intertextuality or view the
intertextual resources on a spectrum rather than as an unstructured list of items provided a
systematic framework for conducting intertextual analysis. Table 2 illustrates the five types of
intertextuality adapted for coding the sentences of each leader’