s message and the related
examples from the messages sampled. Each sentence was coded based on the coding scheme
developed. Double coding was allowed in the coding of RQ 1 and 2 because more than one
type of intertextuality or source of reference could appear in a sentence.
17
Table 2. Description and exemplification on the adapted five types of intertextuality
18
For the second research question (RQ2), we coded the reference type of each intertextual use.
In line with findings from previous studies (e.g. Bremner & Costley, 2018; Koskela, 2013), the
intertextual meaning was mostly inferred from the published company information (R1),
government policies (R2), societal (R3) and economic (R4) issues, technological trends and
developments (R5), cultural specific idioms (R6) and others (R7). Table 3 exemplifies the
seven types of reference employed in our coding scheme.
19
Table 3. Exemplifications on sources of reference in intertextuality
20
To address the third research question (RQ3), we coded the intertextuality manifested in
different moves in the following six moves (e.g. Author, 2017; Bhatia, 2008) in leader
messages:
21
Move 1: Overview of past performance/looking back;
Move 2: Major values/mission and vision;
Move 3: Expression of gratitude to stakeholders;
Move 4: Major achievements and performance;
Move 5: Future plans, actions and promises;
Move 6: Looking ahead/concluding remarks.
The use of intertextuality in each move of the leader messages sampled was recorded for
statistical analysis to facilitate the interpretation of the different uses of intertextuality in Global
500 corporations in the US and PRC.
3.4 Inter-rater reliability
Two coders were trained to code the leader messages from the selected companies. In an
attempt to ensure high inter-coder consistency, both coders underwent 20 hours of coding
training and were required to co-code 177 sentences (10%) extracted from the database. The
inter-rater checking achieved the Cohen Kappa value of 0.8 or above for all the coded items.
When judging whether one expression qualified as an intertextual practice or not, both coders
traced possible references through different means (e.g. surfing on