 the authority of their assertion” so
as to enable leaders to enhance their credibility in communication (Hyland, 1998, p. 235). The
high occurrence of T3 and T4 in leader messages from both the US and PRC suggests that
professional corporate communication as a genre in itself tends to employ such types of
intertextuality across cultures. Stakeholders expect factual messages using indirect speech and
recognisable phrasing that are indicative of accountability, transparency and responsibility
while corporations adhere to these requirements in the globalised era (Yeo, Goh, & Tso, 2011).
In addition, the significant use of R1 (i.e. corporate information) in leader messages from both
the PRC and US corporations is consistent with Koskela’s study (2013) that “[R]eferences to
company strategy, values, vision, mission, reputation, profile, culture and business goals
reinforce the place of the communication strategy texts in the hierarchical structure of the
30
strategic management function of the organization and reveal the importance of the genre
system for the social action the documents are participating in” (p.397).
Another noteworthy finding is that the use of intertextuality was most commonly observed in
M1 (i.e. overview of past performance/ looking back) in leader messages from both the PRC
and US. This is aligned with the literature that the use of familiar references such as mentioning
performance serves a pragmatic purpose to convince readers and establish rapport with them
(Ho, 2011), while legitimisation, focusing on convincing readers with factual evidence of the
performance and development of the company, is commonly seen in the structure of business
texts (Kong, 2001).
5.2 Localised linguistic manifestations of intertextuality in leader messages
Notably, the use of direct quotes (i.e. T1 and T2) was significantly higher in messages from
corporations in the PRC as opposed to their US counterparts. A greater use of direct quotes
through making reference to authoritative sources is done to add credibility and legitimacy to
leader messages (Li, 2009). The leader’s voice as an authoritative spokesperson is reinforced
by the use of direct speech simultaneously rendering the boundaries between the leader’s voice
and the quoted voice unnoticeable to readers, thereby making it possible for the leader to
identify himself with the quoted voice when reporting on company information and persuading