 tax accountants
employed to cite tax regulations, namely, explicit quotations, unmarked quotations,
paraphrases, or interpretations. While the first three types are quite commonly known in various
types of writing, ‘interpretation’ is rather ambiguously described by Devitt. In short, there is
ample evidence that lends support to Scollon’s (2004) postulation about community-specific
intertextual practices. As such, it is contended in this paper that specific manifestations of
intertextuality could also be found in leader messages, which are distinct from other types of
9
business communication in workplace settings.
Yet, an absence of a systematic analytical framework for examining intertextuality renders the
identification of the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality somewhat difficult. Due to this,
scholars have developed various typological configurations using linguistics features
(Fairclough, 1992b) to help “identify the traces of other texts” (Bazerman, 2004, p.91) for
intertextual analysis. These configurations are necessary for clarifying the interdependent
relationship between meaning and form in various discourse types. One of the key typological
constructs was developed by Bazerman (2004) who argued that “intertextuality is not just a
matter of which other texts you refer to, but how you use them, what you use them for, and
ultimately how you position yourself as a writer to them to make your own statement” (p.94).
As such, he developed the following typology of intertextual manifestations to guide his
analysis:
1. Direct quotation or a citation/citing another text with its source indicated
2. Direct quotation without giving references/scarce quotes
3. Indirect speech or a quotation/referring to another text without a direct quotation/
mentioning a person, a company/ organisation/ foundation
4. Comments or evaluation of a statement or text
5. Using recognisable phrasing, and terminology associated with particular
documents/events/people (e.g. professional jargon)
6. Using language and phrases that seem to echo certain ways of communicating and
discussions among other types of documents (e.g. metaphors, stock phrases, idioms,
proverbs).
10
Bazerman’s (2004) typology of intertextuality offered a systematic and comprehensive
framework for identifying intertext