This is the Preprint Version.
The following publication Ngai, C. S. B., Singh, R. G., & Kwan, B. S. C. (2020). A comparative study of the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality
in corporate leaders’ messages of global corporations in the US and China. English for Specific Purposes, 60, 65-84 is available at
https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.esp.2020.05.002.
This is the preprint of the paper
A comparative study of the linguistic manifestations of
intertextuality in corporate leaders’ messages of global
corporations in the US and PRC
Abstract
Corporate leader messages posted by senior management play a pivotal role in building
relationships with stakeholders in the professional corporate communication context and such
messages often explicitly or implicitly draw on prior texts to establish credibility. This mixed
methods study seeks to analyse how intertextuality is manifested linguistically through the
types of intertextual links, sources of reference and move structure in leaders’ messages of
Fortune Global 500 corporations in the United States and People’s Republic of China. The
findings indicate that intertextuality is a prevalent feature of all leader messages. However,
striking cross-cultural observations are noted in that the types of intertextuality vary since
corporations in the PRC often draw on direct quotes in messages whereas indirect quotes are
preferred by corporations from the US. In addition, intertextuality in leaders’ messages reveals
ideological variations in that leaders from corporations in the PRC make explicit intertextual
references to texts on government policies while corporations from the US have a tendency to
refer to social responsibility issues. Discussion of how intertextuality as manifested in the
messages and move structure is thereby driven by the goals of corporations from different
cultures concludes this study alongside wider implications for learning and teaching ESP.
Keywords
1
Referential intertextuality; linguistics manifestation; corporate leaders’ messages; move
structure; global corporations in the US and PRC
1. Introduction
Communication between corporate leaders and stakeholders is crucial in the globalised world
because stakeholders’ support is vital for corporate success (Kitchen & Schultz, 2001), while
the Internet has promoted the use of corporate public relations discourse, under which corporate
leader messages are subsumed (AUTHOR, 2017;