igms and algorithms, each specialized to train ML
models with a certain type of information and experience in a certain type of problem. While pushing the field
forward rapidly, the bewildering and ever-growing variety of paradigms and algorithms also makes it
extremely difficult to master existing ML techniques and to develop universal, repeatable, and reusable
computer programs that can simultaneously learn from diverse experience in the real world. It is a constant
desire and aspiration to search for a standardized ML formalism that unifies the distinct learning principles,
much like the Standard Model in physics, to gain a more holistic understanding of the diverse paradigms and
algorithms, lay out a blueprint permitting fuller and more systematic exploration in the design and analysis of
new algorithms, and eventually serves as a vehicle toward panoramic machine learning capable of integrating
all available information (data, knowledge, constraints, reward, adversary, etc.) in learning and thus applicable
to all problems. This work presents an attempt toward this end. In particular, we establish a standard equation
of the learning objective, which subsumes many of the known algorithms as special cases and offers guiding
principles of designing new more powerful learning algorithms in a mechanical and composable way.
2
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
1. Introduction
Human learning has the hallmark of learning concepts from diverse sources of information. Take the example
of learning a language. Humans can benefit from various experience—by observing examples through reading
and hearing, studying abstract definitions and grammar, making mistakes and getting correction from teachers,
interacting with others and observing implicit feedback, and so on. Knowledge of a prior language can also
accelerate the acquisition of a new one. How can we build artificial intelligence (AI) agents that are similarly
capable of learning from all types of experience? We refer to the capability of flexibly integrating all available
experience in learning as panoramic learning.
In handling different experience ranging from data instances, knowledge, constraints, to rewards, adversaries,
and lifelong interplay in an ever-growing spectrum of tasks, contemporary ML and AI research has resulted in
a large multitude of learning paradigms (e.g., supervised, unsupervised, active, reinforcement, adversarial
learning), models, optimization techniques, not mentioning countless approximation heuristics and tuning
tricks, plus combinations of all the above.