 We have discussed the SE for learning with all
diverse forms of experience, in both static environments (e.g., fixed data or reward distributions) and dynamic
environments (e.g., optimized or online experience). An exciting next step is to deploy the SE framework to
build an AI agent that continually learns in the real-world complex and fast-evolving context, in which the AI
agent must learn to identify the relevant experience out of massive external information, to acquire increasingly
complex new concepts or skills. Establishing and applying the standardized formalism to the broader learning
settings is expected to unleash even more power by enabling principled design of learning systems that
continuously improve by interacting with and collecting diverse signals from the outer world.
Theoretical analysis of panoramic learning. The paradigm of panoramic learning poses new questions about
theoretical understanding. A question of particular importance in practice is about how we can guarantee better
performance after integrating more experience. The analysis is challenging because the different types of
experience can each encode different information, sometimes noisy and even conflicting with each other (e.g.,
not all data instances would comply with a logic rule), and thus plugging in an additional source of experience
does not necessarily lead to positive effects. But before that, a more basic question to ask is, perhaps, how can
we characterize learning with some special or novel forms of experience, such as logic rules and auxiliary
49
Harvard Data Science Review • Issue 4.4, Fall 2022 Toward a 'Standard Model' of Machine Learning
models? What mathematical tools may we use for characterization, and what would the convergence
guarantees, complexity, robustness, and other theoretical and statistical properties be? Inspired by how we
generalized the specialized algorithms to new problems, a promising way of the theoretical analysis would be
to again leverage the standard equation and repurpose the existing analyses originally dealing with supervised
learning, online learning, and reinforcement learning, to now analyze the learning process with all other
experiences.
From standardization to automation. As in other mature engineering disciplines such as mechanical
engineering, standardization is followed by automation. The standardized ML formalism opens up the
possibility of automating the process of creating and improving ML algorithms and solutions. The current
‘AutoML’ practice has largely focused on automatic search of neural network architectures and
hyperparameters, thanks to the well-defined architectural and hyperparameter