 AI Workshop at CVPR. These challenges
perception (to recognize scenes and objects), audio per-
aregroupedintothreethemes: (1)visualnavigation,(2)re-
ception (to receive the speech spoken by the human),
arrangement, and (3) embodied vision-and-language. We
language understanding (to translate questions and in-
discuss the dominant datasets within each theme, evalua-
structions into actions), memory (to recall how items
tionmetricsforthechallenges,andtheperformanceofstate-
should be arranged or to recall previously encoun-
of-the-artmodels. Wehighlightcommonalitiesbetweentop
teredsituations),physicalintuition(tounderstandhow
approaches to the challenges and identify potential future
tointeractwithotherobjects),multi-agentreasoning(to
directionsforEmbodiedAIresearch.
predict and interact with other agents), and naviga-
tion (to safely move through the environment). The
study of embodied agents both provides a challeng-
1.Introduction
ing testbed for building intelligent systems and tries
to understand how intelligence emerges through in-
Within the last decade, advances in deep learn-
teraction with an environment. As such, it involves
ing, coupled with the creation of massive datasets
many disciplines, such as computer vision, natural
and high-capacity models, have resulted in remark-
languageprocessing,acousticlearning,reinforcement
able progress in computer vision, audio, NLP, and
learning, developmental psychology, cognitive sci-
the broader field of AI. This progress has enabled
ence,neuroscience,androbotics.
modelstoobtainsuperhumanperformanceonawide
variety of passive tasks (e.g. image classification). In this paper, we present a retrospective on
However, this progress has also enabled a paradigm the state of embodied AI, focusing on the chal-
shift towards embodied agents (e.g. robots) which lenges highlighted at the 2020–2022 CVPR em-
learn, through interaction and exploration, to cre- bodied AI workshops. The challenges presented
atively solve challenging tasks within their environ- in the workshop have focused on benchmarking
ments. The field of embodied AI focuses on how in- progress in navigation, rearrangement, and