
ingaframeworkandsimulationenvironmentsforre- aretoomanyunmatchedcuboidstogetahighscore.
peatable,quantitativecomparisonofbothpassiveand Whencompetitorsbridgethegapfrompassivetoac-
activeapproaches. tive control, we also commonly see a drop in OMQ
Participationinthechallengeisconductedthrough ofapproximately0.06despitehavingmorecontrolof
simulated environments, accessed and controlled us- the robot’s observations. Those who participated in
ing the BenchBot framework [187]. The environ- bothpassiveandactivecontrolversionsoftheseman-
ments used are a version of the BenchBot environ- tic SLAM task, focused their research in how to map
ments for active robotics (BEAR) [83] rendered us- a scene given a sequence of inputs, rather than how
ing the NVIDIA Omniverse Isaac Simulator9. BEAR toactivelyexploretomaximizeunderstandingofthe
provides 25 high-fidelity indoor environments com- scene. Theseresultssuggestthatpotentiallythemost
prisingoffivebaseenvironmentswithfivevariations fruitful areas for future research lie in better filtering
thereof. Betweenvariations,objectsareaddedandre- outcuboidsthatdonotmatchanytrueobject,andin
moved, and lighting conditions are changed. Across how to best exploit active robot control to improve
environments there are 25 object classes of interest scene understanding. There is also yet to be an at-
to be mapped within the challenge. The challenge tempt at solving this challenge using active control
splits BEAR into 2 base environments for algorithm and noisy pose estimation which adds further diffi-
development and 3 for final testing and evaluation. cultytothechallenge.
The BenchBot framework enables a simulated robot
to explore BEAR using either passive or active con-
trolthroughdiscretisedactionsthatarepre-definedor 3.1.6 Audio-VisualNavigation
actively chosen by the agent respectively. The action
Moving around in the real world is a multi-sensory
space for robot agents is MOVE_NEXT for passive
experience, and an intelligent agent should be able
modeandMOVE_DISTANCEandMOVE_ANGLEfor
to see, hear and move to successfully interact with
active mode with magnitude of