ringtoreal-worldscenar-
generates 10K houses to train embodied agents, and
ios, have begun to emerge in recent years [155]. This
achieves remarkable generalization results on many
isastart,butapproacheslikethesewillneedtobeex-
downstream navigation and interaction tasks [51, 56,
pandeduponinthefuture.
151,200]. Atahigh-level,eachhouseisgeneratedby
sampling a floorplan (defining which rooms appear
5.5.ProceduralGeneration
in a house and where) and then sampling the place-
InembodiedAI,proceduralgenerationcanbeused ment of objects in rooms of the house. The objects
to create environments with respect to some priors. largely come from AI2-THOR’s asset database, mak-
The purpose is often to scale up the diversity of data ing them interactive. All the objects are modularly
22
placed in each scene, which also provides semantic Binary Mask Segmentation Language Image
What sport are
annotations of the scenes for free. Procedural gener- they playing?
ation also allows for sampling scenes with respect to
preferences. Forexample,ifIwanttotrainanObject- input sequence of discrete tokens
Language
Navagenttofindabasketballinahomeortooperate Bounding Boxes
A wooden shelf
filled with colorful
inaroomwithmanymirrors,itissignificantlyeasier ceramic dishes
to procedurally generate environments that fit such
criteria than it is to either build such environments
from scratch or find and scan such environments in Segmentation Depth Mask Binary Mask Image
therealworld. [15,62,189]havealsoshownimpres-
sive generalization results from procedurally gener-
ating more simplistic embodied environments. We
suspectthetrendofprocedurallygeneratingenviron- Key Points Surface Normals Bounding Boxes
mentstocontinuetogrowintheyearstocome.
5.6.GeneralistAgents output sequence of discrete tokens
Embodiedagentsthatcanlearnfrommanytypesof Figure 17. Unified-IO [109] is a generalist model in com-
inputs and produce many different types of outputs puter vision, which can be used to solve tasks with many
offer a promising approach to