 then goes on to of facts, concepts and principles from the scope of
clarify that protection does not extend to the data or copyright protection, as provided in international
material itself, unless the material is separately copy- treaties.
rightable. It is established in various jurisdictions (e.g., the
The WCT Article 2 states, "Copyright protection U.S.) that one is privileged to use a copyrighted work
extends to expressions and not to ideas, procedures, to extract its unprotected content 2. This is the basis on
methods of operation or mathematical concepts as which reverse engineering and digital indexing are
permitted. This means that it is legal to have com-
puters process works to obtain their essential infor-
Both France and Poland are signatories to the Berne Convention and mation, provided that this can be done without
thus Poland must accord as much protection to the French author as it
does to its own nationals. copying their expression. However, this principle by
2 It is uncertain whether one may actually copy the work in order to
itself accomplishes nothing, since the effort of dis-
engage in this activity, but it is certainly permissible to use an au-
thorized copy. tilling expression from a work is very substantial and,
3 The resulting expression would also be separately copyrightable, if
up to now, has required human labor3.
produced by a human, which only compounds the problem.
1186 Shamos /JZhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6.4(11):1179-1187
SYNTHETIC DOCUMENTS infringing copyright b2t extracting the essentials from
a variety of sources and synthesizing an entirely new
A "synthetic document" is one that is produced article from the given ones.
by a machine based on other inputs, typically textual Eventually we want to reach the stage of auto-
articles. This arena has been the subject of much re- matic creation of encyclopedia articles, so that a user
search. Perhaps the simplest example of a synthetic can request an analytical article of a given length on a
document is an index, which is very laborious to specific topic, such as "Tsunami Preparedness in the
generate by hand but can be created very quickly by a Indian Ocean". The program would absorb a large
machine. Such an index is synthetic because it did not corpus of documents, analyze them, evaluate