 per-
centage at 90% would not be amiss. Of even greater COPYRIGHT ISSUES
concern is that technological materials having the
most relevance are very recent and hence most likely It is clear that copyright is a major impediment to
to be in copyright. the development of digital libraries. There is also
Even copyright itself would not be such a huge considerable uncertainty in most countries as to the
problem were it not for the fact that a large percentage scope of fair use of copyrighted works and it is un-
of works that are still in copyright are out of print. certain whether any form of digitization, even just for
This puts the potential user in an impossible situation. indexing, is permissible. Even in the United States,
Even if he is willing and able to buy the book, he which has produced the most extensive set of legal
literally cannot do so. The publisher is unable to determination on this issue, there is still reluctance by
supply a copy, and to duplicate a library copy would small organizations to test the limits of the law.
constitute copyright infringement. Even if the poten- To demonstrate that the question does not admit
tial user were willing to risk an infringement suit, the of a simple answer, consider scanning a copyrighted
UDL cannot put itself in the position of contributing work only for the purpose of developing an online
to the infringement. keyword index of its text. The U.S. Digital Millen-
Prof. Raj Reddy of Carnegie Mellon University, nium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides that, under
who conceived of the UDL, has suggested that own- specified conditions, a "service provider shall not be
ers of out-of-print works ought to consent to an ar- liable... for infringement of copyright by reason of
rangement in which a user of out-of-print the provider referring or linking users to an online
in-copyright (OPIC) material would pay a fee to location containing infringing material or infringing
download or print it, which would be split between activity, by using information location tools, includ-
the UDL and the owner. In case the user wanted a ing a directory, index, reference, pointer, or hypertext
hard copy of the work, the need could be satisfied by link... ''~. This is the statutory justification for
an on-demand printing house that would sell him a large-scale indexes. Even if the