Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6,4(11).'1179-1187 1179
Journal of Zhejiang University SCIENCE i: ii
ISSN 1009-3095
http://www.zju.edu.cn/j zus
E-mail: jzus@zju.edu.cn
:.... II
Machines as readers: A solution to the copyright problem
SHAMOS Michael I.
(School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA)
(Department of Computer Science, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China)
E-mail: shamos@cs.cmu.edu
Received Aug. 5, 2005; revision accepted Sept. 10, 2005
Abstract: Copyright and its international complications have presented a significant barrier to the Universal Digital Library
(UDL)'s mission to digitize all the published works of mankind and make them available throughout the world. We discuss the
effect of existing copyright treaties and various proposals, such as compulsory licensing and the public lending right that would
allow access to copyrighted works without requiring permission of their owners. We argue that these schemes are ineffective for
purposes of the UDL. Instead, making use of the international consensus that copyright does not protect facts, information or
processes, we propose to scan works digitally to extract their intellectual content, and then generate by machine synthetic works
that capture this content, and then translate the generated works automatically into multiple languages and distribute them free of
copyright restriction.
Key words: Universal Digital Library (UDL), Copyright, Digital rights management, Compulsory license, Berne convention,
Public lending right, Synthetic documents, Machine translation
doi: 10.1631/jzus.2005.A1179 Document code: A CLC number: TP391
INTRODUCTION published since Man began writing them. Something
over half of them can be found in the combined li-
Everyone associated with digital libraries, and braries of the world. As of September 2005, OCLC's
especially participants in the joint China-India-USA WorldCat listed over 57 million records on items
Million Book Project, assumes that it will be benefi- spanning the last 3 000 years. While 100 million
cial to mankind to digitize all the works ever pub- books is a vast corpus, if digitized it would be easily
lished and make