 no copyright protection is possible.
typesetting is without charge. This means that the
useful business future for expensive print journals can
be measured by an hourglass, and I hope their death
can be hastened by the UDL. INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT AGREEMENTS
Copyright law is largely territorial--acts that
THE IDEA/EXPRESSION DICHOTOMY take place in a given country are subject to the copy-
right law of that country and no others 2 (Pa, 2000).
As a general rule, subject to international com- However, large numbers of nations have entered into
plexities discussed below, copyright law does not a series of treaties that provide for certain minimum
protect ideas, facts, or processes, but only the manner levels of copyright protection and accord to foreign-
in which they are expressed. For example, the U.S. ers the same level of protection as that provided to
Copyright Act states, "In no case does copyright nationals of the country, a concept referred to as "na-
protection for an original work of authorship extend tional treatment." The principal agreements are the
to any idea, procedure, process, system, method of Beme Convention, the Universal Copyright Conven-
operation, concept, principle, or discovery, regardless tion (UCC), the Paris Convention for the Protection of
of the form in which it is described, explained, illus- Industrial Property, the WIPO Copyright Treaty and
trated, or embodied in such work ''1. This is a won- the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intel-
derful exception, since what we want from copy- lectual Property Rights (TRIPS). Any sort of analysis
righted works for the purpose of practical benefit to of the effect of these agreements on copyright law
mankind is precisely what is uncopyrightable, namely around the world is far beyond the scope of this article,
the knowledge, ideas, concepts and operational in- save for two points: the treatment of ideas vs. ex-
structions they contain. The question, explored below, pression and compulsory licensing.
is the extent to which the uncopyrightability of ideas The Paris Convention of 1883 established an
is recognized outside the U.S. international union now known as the World Intel-
In some cases, facts or ideas admit essentially of lectual Property Organization (WIPO), which cur-
