 index points to an
single copy (produced from the digital version at the infringing copy of a work, the indexer is not liable
UDL). The proceeds would be divided among the unless it knows of the infringement.
owner, the UDL and the printing house. One might assume that, if it is legal to create an
This solution has encountered obstacles, the index of a copyrighted work, it ought to be legal to
foremost of which I refer to as the "Titanic" problem. distribute the index to others. The index itself is not
Numerous books on the sinking of the Titanic have copyrightable, and, after all, others would be privi-
appeared since 1912. Most go out of print in short leged to generate an index themselves, so what could
order. Others, such as Walter Lord's "A Night to be improper about sharing indexes? The difficulty is
Remember," became best-sellers before sales dimin- that an index to a work, which typically contains the
ished to a negligible level. When the movie "Titanic" exact position of every word in the work, can be used
was released in 1997, several of these books returned to reconstruct the work in its entirety, and distributing
to the best-seller list. The publishers argue that if they the entire index, as opposed to simply allowing online
had a revenue-sharing contract with the UDL, they queries, can be regarded as equivalent to distributing
would miss out on the revenue spike associated with the work itself.
such events. A digital library site has great difficulty com-
The result is that most publishers will not agree plying with copyright law, even if it wants to. A first
problem is that it is extremely hard to determine
I 17 U.S.C. w whether a work is still subject to copyright, and, if so,
1182 Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187
who the copyright owner might be. In the U.S., dili- meantime, development is proceeding rapidly on
gent examination of copyright registration and re- digital rights management (DRM) technology, which
newal records is insufficient to produce an answer, copyright owners expect will make piracy impossible.
even for works for which registration was sought. I believe this to be a futile hope. Any work in-
Since the elimination of copyright formalities by tended for humans must