 them available over the Internet, manageable with present technology. Even assuming
whether for fee or otherwise. However, it is difficult that each book requires 100 MB of memory, the total
to find a clear printed agenda explaining how society storage requirement would be 109 GB. With current
will be enriched aside from the obvious advantages of retail prices for disk storage hovering at $0.50 U.S.
preservation, indexing and efficient digital distribu- per GB in small quantity, the total cost would be
tion. I propose that the ultimate impact of a Universal under $500 million to store every book ever written,
Digital Library (UDL) cannot be realized unless which is much less than the original cost of purchas-
computers are able to read, process, paraphrase and ing, scanning or even storing one copy of each of
translate its contents. The reasons involve copyright them 1.
law, human behavior and the limitations of our cog- The question I want to address is how to use such
nitive power to assimilate information. a corpus once it is created. One of our central prob-
It is estimated that 100 million books have been lems as a society is how to allow developing nations
to reap the benefit of the world's technological de-
velopments. The challenge of feeding the world,
The typical cost to store a book in a circulating library, all charges
included, is about U.S. $6.00 per book per y,e ar. At this rate, the digital providing it with fresh water and keeping it healthy
storage would be paid for in a month. depends on distribution of knowledge in usable form
1180 Shamos /J Zhejiang Univ SCl 2005 6.4(11):1179-1187
to people who need it. For example, the spread of pleasure from reading for other purposes. The joy of
modem farming techniques to areas of chronic famine reading poetry, or novels, or even well-expressed
or overpopulation would be of incalculable value. technical material, will continue unabated as it has for
This requires much more than distributing copies of thousands of years. Satisfying an appetite for pleasure
English books on agriculture to people who cannot is not one of the principal objectives of the Universal
read English. Yet the historical function of libraries Digital Library, however. Its greater concern must
has been primarily to allow selected populations to ultimately be for those who need