 ments understand that paving the information high-
This assumption does not hold for digital works. way is as important as maintaining the traditional one.
One copy in digital form can be distributed at essen-
tially no cost to an arbitrary number of users in es-
sentially no time. Furthermore, many users will only SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS
want to view, use or download only a single page
from a lengthy work, and even if proportional com- Possibly the most persuasive argument against
pensation were provided to the publisher, the result copyright arises when the use of the law acts in a
might be unfairly low. manner directly contrary to its stated intent. The un-
A different sort of solution is the compulsory derpinning of copyright law in the U.S. is the clause
license. This is a permission to reproduce copyrighted in the Constitution giving Congress the power to
material which the owner cannot refuse, but the user enact copyright legislation: "Congress shall have
must pay for. How much the user pays can be deter- power... to promote the progress of science and
mined by a statutory formula, as in the United States, useful arts by securing for limited times to authors
or by an independent tribunal, as in Japan. and inventors the exclusive right to their respective
The U.S. has an effective, but narrowly limited, writings and discoveries" (Pollack, 2002). The term
compulsory licensing scheme for two kinds of works: "science," as used at the time, was not restricted to
phonorecords of copyrighted songs and redistribution scientific activity as we now understand it, but re-
of television signals over cable systems. Anyone who ferred to learned studies in general. The definition is
wishes to sell copies of a sound recording of a song thus broader than it might appear.
may do so without prior permission by simply noti- The Constitutional purpose behind copyright is
fying the copyright owner and remitting a statutory inhibited if publishers &scientific material are able to
royalty based on the length of the song and the keep the results of research out of the hands of aca-
number of copies produced 1. demics by charging exorbitant (actually, prohibitive)
These compulsory licenses work because the prices for scientific journals. An extreme example is
quantum of use is easily measurable--it is determined Elsevier's oft-cited journal Brain Research, whose
by the number