 frames in Youtube-VIS dataset are provided at 6 FPS,
TABLEX
thus introducing long-term references may bring in irrelevant IMPACTOFINTEGRATINGAUDIO-TOKENWITHDIFFERENTREFERENCE
information. FRAMESONAVISVALIDATIONSET.
Numberofinstancequeries.Thenumberofinstancequeries
indicates the maximum detected instances in a frame. How-
ever, there may be a varying number of instances in a frame video data. Our method outperforms CrossVIS baseline by
within a video clip. As shown in Table VI, we notice that 4.4 and 3.9 mAP with ResNet-50 and ResNet-101 backbone
the model is robust to different instance query numbers even respectively.
whentheyareseverelyredundant.Therobustnesstoredundant ToexplorethebenefitofintroducingaudiomodalitytoVIS
queries enables the model to stay effective in scenarios that task, we conduct experiments on AVIS dataset to compare
have extremely few instances. the models trained with audio inputs and without audio
Supervision on the order of instance code. Previous online inputs. Figure 10 shows an example where audio improves
VISmethodHITF[30]explicitlygivessupervisiontokeepthe the segmentation results. The attention between audio and
order-preserving.However,asweproved,theorder-preserving video modality manages to locate the instance which is
is actually a property of the network. As shown in Table VII, weakly distinguishable against the background. As shown in
we notice that the supervision of instance orders cannot Table XII, we notice a slight gain from audio with a small
improve the performance. reference frame number. However, as the reference frame
Pixel-wiseweightW forthetokenfusion.Pixel-wiseweight numberincreases,thegainbeginstosaturate.Thereareseveral
W aims to help the reference feature focus on the foreground reasons accounting for the marginal gain. For example, there
area.AsshowninTableVIII,weablateontheinfluenceofthe are some sound events that do not last for the whole video
pixel-wise weight W on the final segmentation performance. duration. Thus, the audio fusion is meaningless for several
We notice that the performance drops 0.7 mAP if we disable time steps. Moreover,