 appreciation resources
constitute three subcategories of the attitude system. Affect encodes the emotional reactions
of the appraiser to behaviors, texts/processes, or phenomena with positive and negative
valence (Martin & White, 2005). Feelings such as contrition are tied to emotions, as reflected
in this apology: “We are so sorry for the frustration this has caused our customers.” Judgment
resources make positive or negative ethical evaluations of human behavior (Martin & White,
2005), as exhibited in: “We’ve seen the video showing one of our couriers carelessly and
improperly delivering a package the other day.” In this sentence, the expressions “carelessly”
and “improperly” indicate a negative judgment of the courier’s behavior. Appreciation
resources refer to aesthetic evaluations of objects, artifacts, and states of affairs. For example,
in the expression, “We subjected you to unacceptable delays,” the word “unacceptable”
denotes a negative reaction to the experience encountered.
The engagement system, consisting of the subcategories of monogloss and heterogloss,
is concerned with the voice(s) manifested in discourse (Martin & White, 2005). Monogloss
reflects the subjectivity of language users in providing bare assertions without “reference to
other voices” (p. 99), whereas heterogloss embodies the objectivity of language users that
allows for “dialogistic alternatives” (p. 100). For example, the verb “prove” in the statement,
“This has proven to be a good solution,” wards off potential disagreement. By contrast, the
word “know” in the expression, “We know we failed to deliver on this promise,” opens the
dialogic space of the text, suggesting the speaker’s attempt to share what the public expects
from the company: good quality service.
Graduation, entailing force and focus resources, is concerned with modulating the
degree of evaluation (Martin & White, 2005). Force relates to intensity (intensification) and
7
amount (quantification) of the assessment while focus refers to grading according to
prototypicality by which category boundaries are identified (Martin & White, 2005).
Sharpening resources, as manifested in boosters, and softening resources, such as