, reprehensible, time- Thursday, that led to a reprehensible
consuming, disruptive, stupid, painful, outcome. (Starbucks)
serious, difficult, poor, improperly,
carelessly, unfortunate, sophisticated,
thoughtlessly, complex, terrible,
confusing, out of line
Engagement
Heterogloss think, will, probably, possibly, say, recognize, I know you recognize that this absolutely
may, know, show, while, no, never, not, nothing, does NOT represent the professionalism
in fact, however, but, though, must, may and dedication of the 290,000 FedEx
team members worldwide. (FedEx)
Graduation
Force extremely, very, more, a lot, fully, always, While the FSAI has said that the products
absolutely, all, everything, low, just, totally, pose no risk to public health, we
nearly, even, wholly, deeply, completely, appreciate that, like us, our customers
incredibly, highest, deepest, every, small, will find this absolutely unacceptable.
large, a few (Tesco)
14
Focus really, truly, genuinely, typically, nearly The truly horrific event that occurred on
this flight has elicited many responses
from all of us: outrage, anger,
disappointment. (United Airlines)
Coding procedure and intercoder reliability
One coder, a full-time research assistant, was comprehensively trained to undertake half
of the content coding of the apologies. The first author completed the other half of the coding.
To ensure consistency in the interpretation of the coding scheme of response strategies and
appraisal resources, both coders coded eight corporate apologies (40% of the total number of
apologies studied) to check on intercoder reliability. All disagreements were discussed prior
to the comprehensive implementation of the coding exercise. For all categories, the average
pairwise percent of agreement was greater than 0.88, and the average pairwise Cohen’s
Kappa was greater than 0.8, indicating an almost perfect agreement (Landis & Koch, 1977;
Hallgren, 2012). See Appendix 3 for the summary of the IRR statistics of the coding items.
Findings and discussion
Regarding RQ1, our results were consistent with previous studies (e.g. Ngai & Jin, 2016;
Benoit, 2018; Holdener & Kauffman, 2014),