 hedges, can
be manipulated to strengthen or downgrade utterances. For example, utterances including
“truly regretful” or “extremely sorry” indicate expressed contrition with upscale/sharpening
features, whereas the expression “small likelihood of occurrence” suggests incidents with
downscale/softening features.
The appraisal framework can shed light on the discourse mechanisms underlying CEO
stance negotiations with stakeholders. For example, in this phrase, “we subjected you to
unacceptable delays, flight cancellations, lost baggage, and other major inconvenience,” the
CEO expresses deep concern for the appalling experiences encountered by customers by
relying on negative appreciation resources such as “unacceptable” and “inconvenience.” This
framework could potentially serve as a useful apparatus for the analysis of CEOs’ endeavors
to build interpersonal relationships with stakeholders.
In sum, the extant crisis communication research on CEO apologies has shown the
pivotal role of corporate apologies in handling crises, but it fails to uncover how the right
words can be used in apologies so that stakeholders will understand how sincere the
corporation is. This study fills this gap and seeks to reveal the strategic deployment of
linguistic resources in CEO crisis response strategies to restore trust. Therefore, the following
research questions are proposed:
RQ1: How are appraisal resources exhibited in crisis response strategies used in CEO
corporate apologies?
RQ2: How are the crisis response strategies discursively constructed by evaluative
appraisal resources in the corporate apologies?
8
Method
Using the sentence as a unit of analysis, this study adopted content analysis to examine
the use of evaluative appraisal resources in crisis response strategies (RQ1). To elaborate on
the discursive construction of crisis response strategies (RQ2), textual analysis of the use of
evaluative appraisal resources in these strategies was presented based on a framework
integrating crisis response strategies with their corresponding use of appraisal resources.
Sampling
We used a purposive sampling method to collect CEO apologies released from high
profile crisis management cases involving accidents brought on by humans (including out-of-
control employees), product recalls caused by human errors, and organizational misdeeds.
We conducted an online search of company websites, social media sites (i.e., Facebook,
blogs, Twitter, YouTube), and media reports from 2007 to 2018 from leading companies