 (50%) 7 (88%)
Evading
8 (POS-1, 100% vs (POS-3, 75% vs (POS-4, 57% vs 4 (50%) 1 (13%) 0
Responsibility
NEG-0 ) NEG-1, 25%) NEG-3, 43%)
Denial 2 0 0 0 2 (100%) 0 0
17
Informed by these results, we propose a new framework to integrate the strategies with
their corresponding use of dominant appraisal resources to address RQ2. As shown in Table
5, crisis response strategies are presented in descending order according to their frequency of
occurrence in the data.
Table 5. An integrated framework on the use of dominant appraisal resources in the
corresponding crisis response strategies
Communicative
Crisis response Dominant appraisal
approaches and
strategies resources
intended outcomes
positive appreciation,
Corrective action positive judgment and
EmphasizingRemedial graduation
Effects (ERE)-problem
solving and image re-
building
Mortification negative affect
MaximizingPositive
positive appreciation,
Effects (MPE)-
Reducing offensiveness positive judgment and
relationship protection
engagement
and hostility reduction
Evading responsibility negative appreciation
NeutralizingNegative
Effects (NNE)-
relationship protection
and empathy elicitation
Simple denial engagement
18
1) Emphasizing Remedial Effects
The ERE approach which was predominant in corporate apology discourse emphasizes
the company’s commitment to preventing the crisis from escalating and ensuring that similar
wrongdoings will not recur. It intends to rebuild a positive image of sincerity by expressing
sympathy, taking preventive measures, and providing compensation.
Corrective action, as the most preferred restorative strategy in apologies, focuses on
actions taken to repair the damaged image (Lazare, 2005). As suggested, expressions of
regret alongside a changed attitude or policy can add credibility to the request for forgiveness
(Koesten & Rowland, 2004). This strategy is discursively constructed by the predominant use
of positive appreciation, followed by positive judgment and graduation. See example 1 and 2
below.
(1) The company dramatically increased [positive Appreciation] the number of customer
service representatives at the call centers and the website has been improved [positive
Appreciation] to handle the large number of visitors. (Ap