 incorrectly masks a receptacle that contains the object
Action Attention 25 9 of interest so the agent fails to find such receptacles.
Action Attention + Eliminate 25 11 This is often because some objects in the AI2Thor
Action Attention + Plan & Track 35 15 simulator do not spawn according to common sense.
Action Attention + PET 52.5 27.5 As noted in the documentation of the environment2,
objects like Apple or Egg has a chance of spawning in
Table 3. Comparison of different ablations of PET trained unexpected receptacles like GarbageCan, or TVStand.
on a sampled set of 140 demonstrations from the training However, such generations in AI2Thor are unlikely in
set, in terms of completion rate per evaluation split (seen real deployment; thus, the “mistakes” of our Eliminate
and unseen). Applying Eliminate module alone has an module are reasonable.
insignificant effect on overall performance compared to
Plan & Track. However, applying Eliminate module on
sub-tasks together with Plan & Track results in a much Track Module Experimentally, we find that sub-
more significant performance improvement. task planning/tracking is particularly helpful for tasks
that require counting procedures. As shown in Ta-
ble??, PET breaks the task of “Place two soapbar
racies in the human goal specifications. Note that our
in cabinet” into two repeating set of sub-tasks: “take
Action Attention framework uses RoBERTa (Liu et al.,
soapbar→place soapbar in/on cabinet”. Sub-task plan-
2019) embedding for sub-tasks, known to be robust to
ningandtracking,therefore,simplifythehardproblem
synonym variations.
of counting.
Eliminate Module We observe that the main 2ai2thor.allenai.org/ithor/documentation/objects/object-
source of elimination error occurs when the module types/
Plan, Eliminate, and Track
Human Goal Specification Examples policy (i.e., reading an instruction manual about the
Task Chill a cup and place it in the cabinet. environment).
cool the mug→place the mug in/on coffeema-
GT
chine References
chill the mug→return the mug to coffeema-
Gen Ahn, M., Brohan, A., Brown, N., Che