ESTRO 5h This is a novel music transcription task adapted from MAESTRO. For
HEAR, we created a subsampled version that includes 5 hours of training and validation
audio, in 120 second clips. To evaluate submissions, a shallow transcription model was
trained on timestamp-based embeddings provided by the participant models.
We use note onset FMS and note onset with offset FMS for evaluation, as per the
original MAESTRO paper (Hawthorne et al., 2019) and the preceding Onsets and Frames
paper (Hawthorne et al., 2018).
Noteonsetmeasurestheabilityofthemodeltoestimatenoteonsetswith50mstolerance
and ignores offsets. Note onset w/ offset includes onsets as well as requires note duration
within 20% of ground truth or within 50ms, whichever is greater.
Mridingham Stroke and Mridingham Tonic WeusedtheMridangamStrokeDataset
(Anantapadmanabhan et al.,2013)for twonovel multiclass classification tasks: Strokeclas-
sification and Tonic classification. The Mridingam is a pitched percussion instrument used
in carnatic music, which is a sub-genre of Indian classical music. This dataset comprises 10
different strokes played on Mridingams with 6 different tonics.
Vocal Imitations Vocal Imitations (Kim et al.,2018a) is a novel multiclass classification
task, where the goal is to match a vocal imitation of a sound with the sound that is being
imitated. The dataset contains 5601 vocal imitations of 302 reference sounds, organized by
AudioSet ontology. Given a vocal sound, the classification task is to retrieve the original
audio it is imitating.
VoxLingua107 Top 10 This is a novel multiclass classification task derived from the
VoxLingua107 dataset (Valk and Alum¨ae, 2021). The goal of the task is to identify the
spoken language in an audiofile. For HEAR we selected thetop 10 most frequentlanguages
from the development set, which resulted in just over 5 hours of audio over 972 audio clips.
Appendix B. Downstream training details
For each task, using a given model’s frozen embeddings as input features, we train a down-
stream MLP classifier. For scene