 are preprocessed to a common format with standard splits, and distributed
as tarfiles. This alleviates the risk of dataset rot common in YouTube scraping, and the
difficulty of acquiring data locked behind closed-access request forms. All HEAR submis-
sions have code that is Apache 2.0 compatible, models that are CC-Attribution compatible,
and follow a common API, so switching between them requires a single line of code. Eval-
uation code, submitted models, and datasets are key contributions of HEAR, available at
https://neuralaudio.ai/hear.html.
Twenty-nine models were evaluated on 19 diverse downstream tasks, spanning speech,
environmental sounds, and music, and datasets that don’t fit neatly into any rubric, as well
as datasets thatspantheboundariesofmultipleaudiodomains. Thislargestandardizedset
of tasks and models pave the way for comprehensive and reproducible evaluation, enabling
previously impossible longitudinal studies. We are eager to help onboard new tasks into
the HEAR benchmarksuite, particularly unusualand/or few-shotaudio tasks. Thelargest-
scaleHEARscene-embeddingtasksandtheCPU-gatedevaluation oftimestamp-embedding
tasks were the most difficult tasks to run, sometimes requiring 24 hours for downstream
eavluation of a single model-task pair on an A100 GPU, despite no fine-tuning.
BeforeanevaluationlikeHEAR,itwouldbeeasyforthecommunitytosuggestwhichau-
dio tasks are predictably hard: large-scale, well-defined datasets with no more low-hanging
fruit that are known to be difficult to hill-climb. Our contribution—the existence and easy
accessibility of HEAR datasets, models, and evaluation code—allows the community to
probe what we don’t know. And the central question posed by HEAR remains open: Can
one single general-purpose audio representation perform as holistically as the human ear?
If one does, then there is clearly more work to be done towards achieving it.
11
Turian et al.
Acknowledgments
HEAR was sponsored by Google, and competition evaluation was performed on Google
Cloud Platform.
References
Shahin Amiriparian, Maurice Gerczuk, Sandra Ottl, Nicholas Cummins, Michael Freitag,
