 previously been used
divided by total number of words in the tweet) and word
to measure public perception on a range of health topics, from
sentiment scoresper tweet by multiplying the sentiment weight
disease outbreaks and disaster response to health care quality
by the relative frequencyof each word. A single sentiment score
and health reform [15-18]. In the debate around the ACA,
for each tweet was produced by summing all word sentiment
Twitter became a prominent platform for scrutiny and praise.
scoresfor the tweet. This is illustrated in the following equation
Twitter members used hashtag terms #ACA and #Obamacare
where sentiment(word)is the NRC lexicon sentiment score for
to track these conversations. In this study, we sought to evaluate
the word, frequency is the number of times the word occurred
Twitter’s role as a real-time barometer of public sentiment on
in the tweet, and frequency_all_wordsgives the number of (non
the ACA and to determine if Twitter sentiment could be
unique) word instances in the tweet:
predictive of state-level marketplace enrollment.
sentiment score(tweet) = Σ sentiment(word) *
wordεtweet
Methods
frequency(word, tweet)/frequency_all_words(tweet)
Overview These scores were then standardized by Zscores, and a state’s
sentiment score was calculated as the average sentiment of
To evaluate the relationship between Twitter sentiment and
tweets in the state.
marketplace enrollment, we retrospectively collected
ACA-related tweets by state and then tested a correlation of The NRC sentiment lexicon has been used to produce
Twitter sentiment with marketplace enrollment by state. state-of-the-art accuracies for general domain tweets [20].
However, because our ACA corpus of tweets is biased compared
Twitter Data Collection
to general tweets, we validate the NRC sentiment lexicon over
We collected ACA-related tweets from March 1-31, 2014, using our tweets. We randomly sampled 300 tweets from our corpus
the Twitter Search Application Programming Interface [19]. and had 2 raters score the sentiment from -3 (extremely
Specifically, we selected all tweets containing the terms “ACA”, negative) to 0 (neutral) to 3 (extremely positive); interrater
“#ACA”, “Obamacare”, and “