 States. To verify this automatic technique, we
publicly debated, and the marketplaces struggled with technical manually examined 400 randomly selected mappings and found
issues in the first open enrollment period from October 2013 to 99% accuracy.
April 2014, which was the time period designated for consumers
Twitter Sentiment
to purchase a new health insurance plan in the marketplaces
[3-10]. Twitter sentiment was measured using the National Research
Council (NRC) sentiment lexicon [20]. The lexicon contains a
With such monumental and sometimes controversial changes,
list of 54,120 words along with sentiment weights ranging from
both supporters and opponents awaited measures of success or
positive values for positive sentiment to negative values for
failure that included surveys of public support for the ACA and
negative sentiment (eg, the word “excellent” has a positive
reports of marketplace enrollment, meaning the number of
sentiment weight, while “awful” is negative). The NRC lexicon
people purchasing health insurance plans in the marketplace
was created in a data-driven fashion by analyzing tweets with
(eg, marketplace plans) by state [11-14]. The release of these
positive and negative sentiment hashtags. Specifically,
traditional metrics, however, lagged weeks to months. This
Mohammad et al use the point-wise mutual information metric
delay was particularly relevant for the marketplaces as federal
to find an association between words and their being a part of
and state agencies worked to understand what was happening
a tweet with a positive or negative sentiment hashtag [20]. The
and address issues as they arose. In this rapidly changing
lexicon was validated against a hand-annotated set of tweets as
environment, a real-time barometer of public opinion with a
part of the SemEval-2012 sentiment task and was found to
mechanism to identify emerging issues would have been
perform with an F1 value of 0.65. We are not aware of any
valuable.
lexicon achieving better accuracy over a standard set of Twitter
Twitter, an online micro-blogging social media outlet that allows data.
for measure of public sentiment, is a potential new tool to
To apply the lexicon to a tweet, we computed the relative
monitor the rollout of major health policy. Twitter sentiment
frequency for each word in the tweet (eg, the word frequency
(the positivity or negativity of tweets) has