 of the head word, while 14.4% of the
dependency links land on an IG other than the first one.
The parsing accuracy obtained with the three models, with and without lex-
icalization, is shown in table 1. The results are compatible with the findings of
Eryig˘it and Oflazer[9], despite a different parsing methodology, in that the IG-
based models generally give higher parsing accuracy than the word-based model,
with an increase of three percentage points for the best models.
However,theresultsalsoshowthat,fortheunlexicalizedmodel,itisnecessary
to processInnerWord relationsdeterministically in orderto getthe full benefit of
IG-basedparsing,sincetheclassifierscannotcorrectlypredicttheserelationswith-
outlexicalinformation.Forthelexicalizedmodel,addingdeterministicInnerWord
processing has no impact at all on parsing accuracy, but it reduces training and
parsingtime by reducingthe number oftraininginstances forthe SVM classifiers.
6 Inflectional Features
Insteadoftakingasubsetoftheinflectionalfeaturesandusingthemtogetherwith
the main part-of-speech in the POS field, we now explore their use as separate
features for the target tokens. From now on, our POS tag set therefore consists
only of the main part-of-speech tags found in the treebank.
As shownin earlierexamples,the inflectional informationavailable for a given
tokennormallyconsistsofacomplexcombinationofatomicfeaturessuchas+A3sg,
+Pnon and +Loc. Thus, when adding inflectional features to the model, we can
eitheraddasinglefeatureforeachcomplexcombination,orasinglefeatureforeach
atomic component. As seen in table1, both methods improve parsing accuracy
by more than one percentage point across all metrics, but splitting features into
theiratomiccomponentsgivesaslightadvantageoverthesinglefeatureapproach.
(The difference is quantitatively smallbut very consistent,with a meandifference
of 0.4±0.1 for the labeled attachment score of the lexicalized models.
Previous research has shown that using case and possessive features for nom-
inals improves parsing accuracy [9]. In order to get a more fine-