kner, 2017), with four
no trials in which the region isskipped on first-pass reading chainswith1000sampleseach(and1000warmupiterations).
(i.e.,whenfirstfixationdurationiszero)wereincludedinthe The Rˆ values (≤ 1.01) indicated that the models had con-
analysis. Fortotaltime,onlytrialswithanon-zerototaltime verged.4
wereincludedintheanalysis. The main effects of WORDLENGTH replicate the well-
Duetospacelimitations,wewillonlypresentanalysesof knownpositivecorrelationbetweenwordlengthandreading
the first pass time and fixation rate data in the remainder of time (see Demberg & Keller, 2008, and many others). We
thispaper. also find main effects of ERROR, indicating that erroneous
wordsarereadmoreslowlyandaremorelikelytobefixated.
Results
ThemaineffectsofERRORRATEshowthathighertexterror
In Table 2, we present some basic reading measures for our rates lead to longer reading times and higher fixation rates
experiments, and compare these to the reading experiments forallwords(whethertheyarecorrectorerroneous). Addi-
of Hahn and Keller (2018), which used the same texts, but tionally, we find a main effect of ERRTYPE in fixation rate,
did not include any errors (the data is taken from their no showingthattranspositionerrorsleadtohigherfixationrates.
questionpreviewcondition,whichcorrespondstoourexper- This is consistent with our hypothesis that misspellings are
imental setup, see Footnote 2). Even for words with errors, easier to process than transpositions, as they are real errors
the reading measures in our experiments are similar to the that participants have been exposed in their reading experi-
onesreportedbyHahnandKeller(2018). Forwordswithout ence.
errors, we find slightly faster reading times and lower fixa- Figure1graphsmeanfirstpasstimesandfixationratesby
tion rates than Hahn and Keller (2018). Also the accuracy error type and error rate. The most important effect is that
(whichcanonlybemeasuredonthetextlevel, hencewedo
not distinguish words with and without errors) is essentially 3Notethat