- blockandtherefinementnetworkaresignificantlyusefulto
improvetheperformanceoftheproposedmethod.Because,
uatetheeffectsofdifferentparametersontheperformance.
the segmentation encoding block improves the representa-
Wefirstinvestigatedthelossfunctionsandthenutilizeddata
tionofthesegmentationareabyprovidingtheencodedfea-
type for the losses. In the first part of Table 3, we show
ture representation to the residual block, while the refine-
used loss functions for the training as well as correspond-
ment network enhances the alpha matte prediction perfor-
ing MSE values on the AIM test set. It is observed that
mancebyfocusingonthechallengingparts.
each employed additional loss contributes significantly to
thepredictionperformanceofthemodel. Inthebottompart InputtypeWeanalyzedhowusingforegroundsubjectin
of Table 3, we present the effect of using the alpha matte the generator and discriminator as input affects the perfor-
and the foreground subject in the loss functions. α means mance.TheresultsinTable5indicatethatprovidingafore-
thatweonlyutilizedpredictedalphamatteandgroundtruth groundsubjectinadditiontothesegmentationmap,which
alpha matte. α and F represent that we extracted the sub- weobtainedbymultiplyingtheinputandthepredictedseg-
ject from the input image with predicted alpha matte and mentationmap,increasestheperformancesinceitprovides
ground truth alpha matte to obtain predicted and real fore- amoreeffectivefeaturerepresentation. Similarly,concate-
groundsubjects.Then,weemployedtheseoutputstocalcu- nation of the alpha matte and extracted foreground subject
latelossfunctionsforthecorrespondingcase. Whileusing provides a more useful representation to the discriminator
alpha matte helps to penalize the difference between pre- that yields improvement in the performance. Please note
dictedandgroundtruthalphamatte,usingforegroundsub- thatweevaluatedtheproposedsystemonthetestsetofthe
jectprovidesmoreinformationtothenetwork,sinceitcon- AIMdataset.
tainsmuchmoredetailsandsemanticinformationthanthe Limitations Our work is sensitive to the performance
Input Alpha Combined Input Alpha