0.7 LR Adjacent
n (Markup)
o
is
ic 0.6 LR Adjacent
e
r (Sentence)
P
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Recall
Figure 8.8: Precision-recall curves for linear and sequential relevance models.
pair of relevance models on sentence-level nuggets and markup-based nuggets. It can
be seen that the models that take dependencies between text nuggets into account
significantly outperform the independent LR model (at the 1% level) on sentence-
length nuggets, and there is also evidence that these methods are more effective on
markup nuggets. In contrast, the improvements from using a sequential model or an
interpolated model instead of logistic regression with adjacent features are mostly not
significant. This is because these methods did not consistently improve the rankings
for the 12 topics on which the significance tests are based, but they helped for some
topics and hurt (to a lesser extent) in other cases. However, one should keep in mind
that we compared rankings using average precision, which is most sensitive to the
highest-ranked text nuggets. The outcome of the signicance tests can be different if
another metric is used, such as precision or recall at a fixed cutoff point.
Both the logistic regression models and the sequential model perform worse on
sentences than on markup-based text nuggets. The lower performance of the sequen-
tial model on the shorter sentence nuggets is counterintuitive since the transition
models include a binary feature that indicates whether a nugget boundary is also
a markup boundary. Thus the sequential model could assign very low probabilities
to transitions at sentence boundaries that do not coincide with structural markup.
However, some of the features used for relevance estimation, such as cosine similar-
ities, likelihood ratios, and the overlap of a nugget with the search engine abstract,
are less suitable for shorter nuggets. In Section 5.3 we have shown that each of these
relevance features, when used independently to rank text nuggets, is more effective
142 CHAPTER 8. EXTENSIONS FOR RELEVANCE ESTIMATION
LR LR Sequential
Indep. Adjacent
S: 2.44e-4
