 using web search results.
but only 44 out of 3,508 questions in the dataset are lost when adding expanded
content to the manually acquired corpora. This distinguishes the source expansion
approach from most query expansion techniques, which typically hurt performance
more frequently [Collins-Thompson and Callan, 2007]. Our approach adds noise to
the seed corpus in addition to relevant data, but this is less likely to cause a search
to fail than irrelevant terms added to the query.
The recall curves in Figure 6.3 illustrate that source expansion improves search
performance independently of the hit list length for both Jeopardy! and TREC ques-
tions. In these experiments we used only Indri and performed only one passage search
and one title search per question to obtain a single hit list for each strategy. Pas-
sages were retrieved from all available sources, and titles were fetched from an index
of long documents that includes all encyclopedias. Both collections were augmented
with expansions of Wikipedia, Wiktionary and the other encyclopedias. The gains in
passagerecallarelargerforJeopardy! thanforTRECquestionsbecausethereismore
headroom in Jeopardy! search performance. The index used for passage searches in-
cludes the reference corpus used since TREC 11, and passage recall on the TREC
question set approaches 90% even though the answer keys are often incomplete. Title
searches are less effective for TREC since the questions targeted by this strategy are
relatively infrequent in this dataset. The recall curves also show that when adding
the expanded sources, fewer passages or titles yield the same search recall as longer
hit lists without source expansion. Decreasing the hit list lengths can be worthwhile
since this reduces the number of candidate answers and improves the efficiency and
effectiveness of answer selection by downstream components in the QA pipeline.
Table6.7showstheimpactofSEwhenappliedtoincreasingnumbersofWikipedia
seeds. The top 100,000 seeds are responsible for most of the performance gain, which
confirms that popularity-based seed selection is effective. As seeds with lower popu-
larity estimates are expanded, more noise and less useful information is added to the
sources, and the improvements in recall diminish. On TREC, performance even de-
grades (though not significantly) if more than 200,000 seeds are expanded. Of course