rases of previously selected nuggets, which can be useful
to a QA system. In the next section we also explore alternative configurations
and confirm that this setup is most effective for the task of ranking text nuggets
by relevance.
• LR Independent. Logistic regression model using only the original relevance
features, described in Section 4.3.3.
1The percentage of relevant tokens (28%) is larger than the percentage of relevant text nuggets
(7%) because relevant nuggets are on average much longer than irrelevant ones.
5.3. RESULTS AND COMPARISON 57
Model Sentence MAP Markup MAP
Random 28.48% 28.48%
Round Robin 32.59% 35.78%
Search Rank 42.67% 42.67%
Cosine Sim 61.46% 74.75%
LR Independent 71.95% 79.69%
LR Adjacent 77.19% 80.59%
Table 5.4: MAP of baselines and linear relevance models.
• LR Adjacent. Logistic regression model that relaxes the independence assump-
tions by including features of adjacent text nuggets, also described in Sec-
tion 4.3.3.
5.3 Results and Comparison
In Table 5.4 we show MAP scores for all ranking methods. Note that Random breaks
down text nuggets into tokens and Search Rank preserves the original order of the
nuggets, and thus the performance of these strategies does not depend on the size
of the nuggets (individual sentences or markup-based paragraphs). Among the four
baselines, Cosine Sim is clearly most effective, followed with some distance by the
rankings produced by the search engine (Search Rank). The logistic regression models
outperform the baselines, with the only exception that rankings of markup-based
nuggets by cosine similarity have higher precision at very low recall levels (too low to
generate expanded documents of reasonable length).
The independent nugget scoring model (LR Independent) performs worse than
the model with features of adjacent instances (LR Adjacent) in terms of MAP and
is therefore not further evaluated. Note, however, that the difference in performance
betweenthetwomodelsislargeron the sentence-levelnuggets, whichisnot surprising
since it is more important to capture the context of a text nugget if the nuggets are
shorter