website. While previous TREC evaluations primarily focused on subject search (e.g.
find documents about text categorization), Craswell et al. concentrate on the task of
finding sites given their names (e.g. find the home page of Carnegie Mellon). Anchor
texts can be useful for site finding since they often contain the names of the linked
web pages. In contrast, the target pages themselves may not contain their names in
textual form, or this information can be outweighed by other content. The authors
found retrieval based on anchor text to be significantly more effective than retrieval
using the actual content of the documents. In their experiments, a relevant search
result could be retrieved in first place more than twice as often from an index in
which each document is represented by the anchor text of incoming links than from
a conventional document index.
Instead of using anchor text that is associated with incoming links, Marchiori
[1997]leveragesoutgoinglinkstoimprovedocumentrankingsgeneratedbywebsearch
engines. The author noted that linking a web page is similar to directly incorporating
the target content into the web page since a visitor can access this content by follow-
ing the link. However, rather than adding the content of linked pages to the source
document, the relevance of each page with regard to a given query is evaluated inde-
pendently and the relevance scores are combined, giving less weight to linked pages.
This method was applied as a post-processing step to refine the relevance scores and
document rankings generated by several web search engines. In a user study, the
rankings that were adjusted based on outgoing links were preferred over the original
rankings from the search engines.
Similarly to hyperlinks, citations in a corpus of scientific publications can be
leveraged for document expansion. Here the text surrounding a citation of a related
2.3. DOCUMENT EXPANSION 15
article can be regarded as a summary of the most important information in this
article, or information that is deemed important in the context of the citing article.
However, while the recognition of anchor text is straightforward, it can be difficult
to accurately select relevant text that should be associated with citations. O’Connor
[1982] used citing statements in a corpus of chemical journal papers to improve search
recall. Arule-basedapproachwas developedforselecting sentences inthe vicinity ofa
citation and other