 predict transitions between relevant and irrelevant passages.
It slightly outperforms the best linear model while using fewer parameters and requir-
ing less training time. In addition, we demonstrate that active learning reduces the
amount of labeled data required to fit a relevance model by two orders of magnitude
with little loss in ranking performance. This facilitates the adaptation of the source
expansion algorithm to new knowledge domains and applications.
Applied to the QA task, the proposed method yields consistent and statistically
significant performance gains across different datasets, seed corpora and retrieval
strategies. We evaluated the impact of source expansion on search performance and
end-to-end accuracy using Watson and the OpenEphyra QA system, and datasets
comprisingover6,500questionsfromtheJeopardy! quizshowandTRECevaluations.
By expanding various seed corpora with web search results, we were able to improve
the QA accuracy of Watson from 66% to 71% on regular Jeopardy! questions, from
45% to 51% on Final Jeopardy! questions and from 59% to 64% on TREC factoid
questions. Wealsoshowthatthesourceexpansionapproachcanbeadaptedtoextract
relevant content from locally stored sources without requiring a search engine, and
thatthismethodyieldssimilarperformancegains. Whencombinedwiththeapproach
that uses web search results, Watson’s accuracy further increases to 72% on regular
Jeopardy! data, 54% on Final Jeopardy! and 67% on TREC questions.
iv
Acknowledgements
First of all, I would like to thank my advisor Eric Nyberg for his support and
guidance throughout my studies at Carnegie Mellon. From the beginning, Eric placed
great confidence in me, allowing me to explore new research directions and develop
my own research objectives. I also deeply appreciate his generosity and his readiness
to share his experience and to give helpful advice whenever needed. Without his
support, this work would not have been possible. I am also very grateful to Jennifer
Chu-Carroll, who has been my mentor at IBM Research for over three years. I have
been fortunate to work with one of the most experienced researchers in the field of
question answering, and was able to learn a lot from her about her area of expertise
and about conducting rigorous scientific research. Furthermore, I would like to thank
