 the retrieved text passages do not span more than one nugget.
Thus the neighborhood of text nuggets in the expanded documents does not affect
search results much.
4.5 Examples
Two examples of pseudo-documents generated for the Wikipedia seed articles about
Carnegie Mellon University and IBM are given in Figures 4.3 and 4.4, respectively.
In these examples, text nuggets were extracted based on HTML markup and sorted
by their estimated confidence scores in descending order. Most of the high-confidence
nuggetsarehighlyrelevanttothetopics. Twoexceptionscanbeseenatthebeginning
of the document about the topic IBM in Figure 4.4. We found that some topicality
features and search-based features are less reliable for such short nuggets (cf. the
comparison of different nugget granularities in Section 5.3), but since these nuggets
take up little space in the expanded documents, they can be expected to have little
impact on the effectiveness or efficiency of the SE approach. Note that the actual
expanded documents used in our experiments are considerably longer than the ones
shown here, and include nuggets with lower relevance estimates.
48 CHAPTER 4. SOURCE EXPANSION APPROACH
To better understand how SE improves QA performance, consider the question
What is the name of the rare neurological disease with symptoms such as: involun-
tary movements (tics), swearing, and incoherent vocalizations (grunts, shouts, etc.)?
(TREC 8, Question 8). The expanded version of the Wikipedia article about Tourette
syndrome illustrated in Figure 4.1 contains the following nuggets, which originated
from different web pages and jointly almost perfectly cover the question terms (un-
derlined):
• Rare neurological disease that causes repetitive motor and vocal tics
• The first symptoms usually are involuntary movements (tics) of the face, arms,
limbs or trunk.
• Tourette’s syndrome (TS) is a neurological disorder characterized by repetitive,
stereotyped, involuntary movements and vocalizations called tics.
• The person afflicted may also swear or shout strange words, grunt, bark or make
other loud sounds.
ThisexamplesupportstheclaiminSection1.1thatsourceexpansionhelpsconsolidate
sources by merging related content into a single document. The expanded document
