
one correspondence between documents and topics that are suitable for SE, such as
locally stored web crawls and newswire corpora. We will show that these document
collections can be used to gather related content for source expansion without relying
onawebsearchengine(Section7.1). Inaddition, wewill outlinehowanunstructured
corpus can be transformed into a topic-oriented source by identifying topics that have
highcoverageinthecorpusandbuildingpseudo-documentsfromrelevantinformation
1.3. CONTRIBUTIONS 5
about these topics. The pseudo-documents can then be used as a seed corpus and
can be expanded with the four-stage SE pipeline for topic-oriented sources described
above (Section 7.2).
1.3 Contributions
We propose a novel algorithm for expanding text corpora with relevant information
from the Web and other large document collections using statistical models for rele-
vance estimation. The source expansion approach comprises techniques for selecting
useful seed topics based on popularity estimates, methods for acquiring related con-
tent from external resources, and a framework for selecting relevant text using statis-
tically motivated features. Our implementation is sufficiently robust and efficient to
support the expansion of text corpora comprising millions of documents. We also give
examples of how this method can be adapted to different types of seed documents
and information needs.
To support the annotation of high-quality training data for the relevance estima-
tion task and to facilitate the adaptation of our method to new knowledge domains
andapplications, wedevelopedanannotationinterfaceandasetofguidelinesthataid
annotatorsinmakingconsistentdecisions. Weappliedthismethodologytogeneratea
dataset comprising 1,500 web pages and over 160,000 hand-labeled text nuggets with
manual relevance judgments. Different baselines and statistical models are evaluated
intrinsically on the dataset, and their effectiveness for ranking text by relevance is
compared. The baselines include rankings generated by a web search engine and an
effective multi-document summarization algorithm. Linear models fitted with logistic
regression are used to score text nuggets based on a variety of relevance features, and
a sequential model combines these features with a second set of transition features to
dynamically predict boundaries between relevant and irrelevant text. The