idate topics, or the entries in a domain-specific ontology could serve as an initial
set of topics when using a collection of scientific papers as a seed corpus. In some
newswire sources, the articles have also been manually annotated by editors with
entities that are central to the news stories and could be used as candidates. Finally,
if the expanded sources are intended for a QA system, one could also focus on entity
types that are frequently answers to questions in a development set.
We can select candidate topics with high coverage in the unstructured corpus and
extract text nuggets that mention those topics by applying the same methodology
as in the previous section. Again, one could match different surface forms of a topic
and generate a single pseudo-document that contains the extracted nuggets for all
different variants. This may improve relevance estimation effectiveness because more
content would be available to compute topicality features, and the document retrieval
performanceofaQAsystemmayincreaseifrelatedfactsaboutthetopicofaquestion
arestoredinoneplace. InsteadofrelyingonWikipediaredirectstoidentifyvariantsof
a topic, coreference resolution algorithms could be applied to match different surface
strings that refer to the same topic within a document, or a dictionary with synonyms
could be used to match variants across documents. However, even if alternative forms
aretreatedasseparatetopics, theapproachfortransformingunstructuredsourcescan
still be effective. Usually there exists a preferred variant that is used most of the time
to refer to a topic, and this variant would be chosen if the coverage in the corpus
is used as a ranking criterion. If text nuggets that mention this most common form
120 CHAPTER 7. UNSTRUCTURED SOURCES
are extracted, a sufficient amount of relevant content may be found to create a useful
pseudo-document.
Given the initial pseudo-documents for the selected topics, we can again use a
statistical relevance model to filter out noise and low-quality text. If a topic can be
mapped to an existing topic-oriented document such as an article in an encyclopedia
or a dictionary entry, that document may be used as a seed to compute topicality
features. However, we have shown in Section 5.4 that the relevance models for topic-
oriented source expansion are reasonably effective even if no seed content is available.
In addition,