 selection phase. Note
that the expansion is performed only once in a preprocessing step and that the gen-
erated sources can then be used to answer a wide range of questions that are related
to the topics in the seed corpus. Our SE method does not require specific knowledge
of the questions that will be posed to a QA system at runtime.
We found that it is not always beneficial or computationally feasible to expand all
documents in a seed corpus. Thus we developed strategies for selecting topics that are
most likely to be useful for a given QA task based on different measures of popularity
(Section 6.2). For example, when expanding the encyclopedia Wikipedia, we focused
on articles that are frequently referenced by other Wikipedia articles and are thus
likely to contain information of common interest. In experiments with Wiktionary,
an online dictionary, we expanded entries about terms that are frequently mentioned
in a large English text corpus.
Crucial to the effectiveness of source expansion is the statistical relevance estima-
tion approach (step 3 in the pipeline). We developed a variety of relevance features,
ranging from surface characteristics of the extracted text nuggets (e.g. the positions
of nuggets in the source documents and whether they contain many known words or
trigrams) to search-related features (e.g. the search ranks of the source documents) to
topicality features that take the content of the seed documents into account (e.g. us-
ing language models, tf-idf term weights and a multi-document summarization al-
gorithm). Statistical models trained on a large dataset of manually annotated web
pages can be used to effectively score text nuggets and separate relevant from irrele-
vanttext(Chapter5). However, wewillshowthatsimilarresultscanbeachievedwith
substantially less annotation effort through active learning techniques (Section 8.1).
Linear model fitting methods such as logistic regression are well-suited for this task,
but we were able to attain slightly higher performance with a sequential model that
estimates the relevance of text nuggets given the surrounding text in their source
documents (Section 8.2).
In most experiments, we focused on expanding topic-oriented sources such as
encyclopediasanddictionarieswithrelatedcontentfromwebsearchresults. However,
our approach can also leverage unstructured sources in which there exists no one-to-