7
8 CHAPTER 2. RELATED WORK
2. Whileweavoidlexicalredundancybyremovingtextnuggetsthatareneardupli-
cates of other nuggets or seed content, semantically redundant text that phrases
the same information differently is desirable. For instance, QA systems benefit
from semantic redundancy as it becomes more likely that a relevant passage in
the sources closely matches the keywords in a question and can be retrieved
in the search phase. Furthermore, multiple supporting text passages can be
leveraged to more accurately estimate the confidence in a candidate answer.
Similarly, semantic redundancy can improve the recall and precision in other
information retrieval and extraction tasks. Multi-document summarization, on
the other hand, aims at compiling succinct summaries consisting of text pas-
sages that add novel information. Thus, relevant text that rephrases important
information but adds little new content may not be included in the summary.
3. The pseudo-documents generated through SE are not intended for human con-
sumption. Thus, we are not concerned with generating coherent paragraphs of
text that appear natural to a human reader. This allows us to remove irrele-
vant content from the pseudo-documents more aggressively. For instance, we
can drop text nuggets if their confidence estimates fall below a threshold even
if the remaining text appears out of context to a human. As the threshold can
be adjusted to include more or less relevant text, we can fully control the size
of the expanded sources.
In this thesis, we compare our statistical relevance estimation approach to a sum-
marization algorithm. We chose the maximal marginal relevance (MMR) algorithm
introduced by Carbonell and Goldstein [1998] because of its effectiveness and rela-
tive simplicity. The MMR algorithm generates a summary by iteratively selecting
text passages that are relevant to a query and add novel information that is not yet
covered by previously selected passages. Additional details about the algorithm are
provided in Section 2.4. MMR is effective for identifying a diverse sample of relevant
text, but the statistical method is more suitable for selecting relevant and semanti-
cally redundant information for source expansion. Furthermore, we found that the
performance of the statistical model can be improved by incorporating a feature that
is based on a variation of the MMR algorithm.
Recent research on definitional QA has led to various algorithms for compiling
