 must provide information about the topic that is of general
interest. This definition is somewhat imprecise, and a good question to ask is
Could this information appear in the seed document, or a more comprehensive
version of the seed? For instance, if the seed is about a famous actor then a
passage taken from his blog stating that the actor had a coffee at Starbucks in
the morning is not relevant, but a passage that mentions a movie he starred in
is relevant. No preference is given to more recent information.
3. Self-contained, i.e. it must be a paragraph, sentence, sentence fragment or
phrase that is meaningful when viewed independently. For instance, if the topic
is Albert Einstein, then the snippet born on March 14, 1879 is self-contained,
but the snippet March 14, 1879 is not self-contained since the date is taken
out of its context. The snippet may optionally contain coreferences to the topic
(e.g. he was born in Germany), but not to other entities that are not mentioned
in the snippet (e.g. she married him in 1903).
4. Well-formed, i.e. it must be a paragraph, sentence, sentence fragment or
phrase in proper English. Text passages in languages other than English, pas-
sages containing source code in a script language, lists of proper names etc. are
not well-formed.
5. Objective or a substantiated opinion. For instance, the snippet Obama
made history because he is the first African American president is substantiated
whereas the statement Obama made history!!! is unsubstantiated.
6. Correct at some point in time, i.e. it should not provide information about
the topic that is obviously wrong and has never been true in the past. However,
40 CHAPTER 4. SOURCE EXPANSION APPROACH
it is infeasible for annotators to manually verify each and every fact before
selecting a text passage.
7. Not misleading when taken out of context. For instance, if the topic is
Barack Obama, a passage about his father (who had the same name) can be
misleading when viewed independently.
A text passage is still considered relevant even if it is:
• Incomplete, e.g. a sentence fragment or a phrase. For example, if the topic is
Barack Obama, the snippet elected president in 2008 is acceptable