 text that can be associated with the referenced article, such as the
citing article’s title and the heading that precedes the citation. The execution of these
rules was simulated manually because the corpus was not available in electronic form.
As a baseline, O’Connor used an index that combined manually assigned index terms
with words that were automatically extracted from a digital database of abstracts.
By expanding this index with words from citing statements, recall of a Boolean search
was improved from 50% to 70%. Note, however, that the expansion also increased the
number of articles matching Boolean queries, and thus it may have hurt precision.
Bradshaw [2003] observes that it is hard to automatically extract relevant terms
from a single citing statement, but if a publication is referenced multiple times, the
references can be compared and terms that are used repeatedly can be given more
weight. The author proposes a retrieval model that assigns high scores to documents
that are frequently cited using many of the terms in a query. This model is aimed
at retrieving publications that are both relevant to a query and influential in their
field of research. The approach is compared to a vector space model that computes
cosine similarities between the query and the content of documents. In an evaluation
using subject queries against a collection of scientific publications from CiteSeer3,
the citation-based method retrieved on average 1.66 more relevant articles among the
first 10 results than the vector space approach. Bradshaw concludes that retrieval
using citation text is more robust because a query term that repeatedly appears in
references to a document is usually central to its topic, whereas the document itself
may frequently contain terms that are unrelated to the topic.
2.3.3 Comparison to Source Expansion
Allofthesedocumentexpansionmethodshaveincommonthattheyimproveretrieval
accuracy on an existing text collection. We have seen consistent gains in document
ranking performance (in recent experiments with vector space models and language
models) and search recall (in early studies using a Boolean retrieval model). This
was accomplished by augmenting document representations with related terms and
phrases found in the same collection or an auxiliary corpus, and by re-weighting or re-
placing existing terms. As a result, the retrieval system can more accurately evaluate
the relevance of documents to a given query. Document expansion can be particularly
helpful if the query terms do not match the terminology used