 relevance estimation, and thus the statisti-
cal relevance model can discount text nuggets that were extracted from low-ranking
and potentially noisier documents. Our current implementation of the SE algorithm
does not support some proprietary document formats such as PDF files and Microsoft
Word documents, and thus the number of search results that are actually fetched and
parsed can be less than 100.
We also experimented with the retrieval of documents that are directly referenced
by the seed documents, e.g. through external links in Wikipedia articles, but found
the web search approach to yield more relevant text. When using web pages that are
linked from Wikipedia as a source of related text in addition to Yahoo! search results,
the final expanded corpus contained very few text nuggets from the linked pages.
In experiments with Jeopardy! datasets, search recall did not improve significantly
compared to source expansion using only web search results.
In experiments with Wikipedia and Wiktionary, we used the document titles as
queries for the Yahoo! searches. This approach works well since in these sources the
titles are fully disambiguated descriptions of the topics of documents. In Wikipedia,
the titles of articles often contain disambiguation information in parentheses, such as
Washington (U.S. state) or Paul Simon (politician), which is included in our queries.
However, queries can also be generated from topic-oriented documents that do not
have descriptive titles by extracting topical terms from their bodies based on markup
information or using statistical techniques.
Furthermore, the SE approach can be extended to support unstructured seed
corpora in which there exists no one-to-one correspondence between documents and
topics, such as newswire corpora or locally stored web crawls. In Chapter 7, we de-
scribe how such sources can be transformed into topic-oriented document collections
before applyingthe SEpipelinediscussed here. We alsodemonstrate thatit is feasible
to extract related text from a large unstructured text corpus without using a docu-
ment retrieval system, and that the performance of this extraction-based method is
comparable to the search-based approach. Thus the search engine is not an integral
part of the SE approach, and it is not required for our method to be effective.
4.2 Extraction
The extraction component splits the retrieved documents into paragraph-length text
nuggets. For HTML pages