Jamie Callan for his thoughtful comments and honest reflections on my work. Jamie
made many helpful suggestions that resulted in additional experiments and analyses
and ultimately improved the quality of this work considerably. I am also thankful to
Jaime Carbonell for sharing his vast experience and knowledge of machine learning
and language technologies with me. Despite his extremely busy schedule, Jaime took
the time to study my work carefully and provide valuable feedback and guidance.
Much of my thesis research would not have been possible without the help of
the DeepQA group at IBM. In addition to Jennifer’s continuous support, I had the
pleasure of working closely with James Fan and Wlodek Zadrozny during my summer
internships at IBM Research. James and Wlodek contributed many interesting ideas
and new insights that led to significant improvements of our method. In addition,
I feel indebted to many other IBMers who helped build Watson, which served as
a testbed for most of the experiments in this thesis. I am particularly grateful to
Eric Brown, Pablo Duboue, Edward Epstein, David Ferrucci, David Gondek, Adam
Lally, MichaelMcCord, J.WilliamMurdock, JohnPrager, MarshallSchor, andDafna
Sheinwald. Furthermore, I greatly appreciate the help I received from Karen Ingraf-
fea and Matthew Mulholland with various data annotation tasks. Karen and Matt
have been instrumental in creating a dataset for statistical relevance modeling, and
they helped evaluate Watson’s answers to thousands of questions to obtain unbiased
estimates of the performance impact of our approach.
I am also extremely grateful to my parents, Stefan and Maria Schl¨afer, for their
constant support and trust. They always encouraged me to make my own choices and
follow my own interests, while supporting me in every way they could and helping me
obtain the best education possible. Finally, I would like to thank my wife, Sachiko
Miyahara, forherencouragementandunderstandingduringthesebusyyears. Sachiko
was always ready to provide advice and support, and never complained when I was
busy working towards yet another deadline. I am very fortunate to have met her in
Pittsburgh.
vi
Contents
1 Introduction 1
1.1 Motivation......................