 into account when estimating their relevance are the
subject of Section 8.2.
4.3.1 Annotation Methodology
To develop effective feature sets and learning methods for the relevance estimation
task, weneededtoannotatealargeamountofhigh-qualitytrainingandtestdata. We
selected a sample of 15 Wikipedia articles and for each of these articles retrieved 100
web pages following the approach described in Section 4.1. When selecting seeds, we
focused on articles about unambiguous topics so that it could be decided with relative
ease whether a given text passage is relevant to the topic. We further only considered
articles that were long enough for the relevance features discussed in Section 4.3.2 to
be reliable, and that were at least of marginal interest to the annotators. In addition,
we attempted to select a diverse sample of articles about people, things and events.
4.3. SCORING 39
The seed articles and retrieved web pages were presented to three human annota-
tors, who were given instructions to (1) read the seeds to familiarize themselves with
their topics, and (2) label substrings of the web pages that are relevant to the topics
of the seeds. To keep the manual labeling costs to a minimum, each topic was only
assigned to a single annotator. Therefore, it was important to develop detailed guide-
lines that enable annotators to make consistent decisions about the relevance of text
passages. These guidelines were given in the form of a checklist designed to facilitate
decisions in borderline cases, and they were gradually refined as we annotated more
data. In the following, we list criteria that a text passage had to satisfy in order to be
relevant, or could satisfy while still being considered relevant. The annotators were
instructed to select substrings of the retrieved documents that are as long as possible
without violating any of these criteria.
In order to be relevant, a text passage must be:
1. Topical, i.e.itmustbeaboutthetopicdefinedbytheseeddocumentorabouta
directly related topic. For instance, if the topic is Barack Obama, then the text
snippet President Obama lives in the White House is topical and the snippet the
White House is located in Washington, D.C. is also acceptable since its topic
White House is directly related to Barack Obama.
2. Informative, i.e. it