 required to achieve fast response times.
In addition, the proposed source expansion method outperforms other reasonable
strategiesforgatheringadditionalsourcecontent. Thepopularity-basedseedselection
approach helps target topics that are relevant for QA, and the expanded documents
for the most popular seeds clearly have the largest impact on search recall. We have
also shown that QA search performance can degrade if too many seeds are expanded.
Furthermore, even if the most relevant topics are identified, an effective model is
needed to accurately estimate the relevance of related text and avoid adding noise.
Our statistical relevance models outperform several strong baselines, such as search
engine rankings and a multi-document summarization algorithm, both in an intrinsic
evaluation and when applied to the QA task. In preliminary experiments, we also
attempted compiling larger expanded sources that include text with lower relevance
estimates, but this did not further improve QA search recall.
When interpreting the QA results, one should keep in mind that 100% search
recall or accuracy are unattainable. In practice, the headroom is much smaller be-
cause the answer keys used to evaluate search and answer extraction performance
are incomplete, and the answer selection algorithms deployed in QA systems are im-
perfect. In addition, the Jeopardy! datasets contain puzzles, word plays and puns
that are often difficult to resolve programmatically or require specialized inference.
Some Jeopardy! questions also seek answers that cannot be retrieved from existing
information sources but must be derived in an additional processing step (e.g. YOU
DO THE MATH: The number of legs on a spider plus the number of legs on a fly).
TREC questions often ask for obscure facts that are unlikely to be found even when
using a web search engine at QA runtime (e.g. How much could you rent a Volkswa-
gen bug for in 1966?). With source expansion, Watson achieves 90.11% search recall
and 72.32% accuracy on a large, blind test set of regular Jeopardy! questions. These
results are hard to beat without overfitting to the test data.
148 CHAPTER 9. CONCLUSIONS
9.2 Importance of Source Expansion
It is usually possible to make large improvements early in the development of a QA
system (or other applications of language technologies), but as the system becomes
more effective at its task the