 contains 25.6 GB of high-quality, manually selected sources including
the TREC 11 reference corpus, and achieve comparable performance by expanding
only Wikipedia to about the same total size (25.1 GB). This shows how important it
is to target the selection of web data by using appropriate seed topics and effective
relevance estimation strategies.
In Table 6.17 we show Watson’s precision@70 for different seed corpora and ex-
panded sources on regular Jeopardy! questions. This is the precision if Watson only
answers questions for which its confidence in the top candidate exceeds a threshold.
70% of the questions in the regular Jeopardy! dataset have answers with confidence
scores above this threshold, and the remaining 30% have lower estimates. It can be
seen that Watson’s precision is much higher if it only attempts questions when it is
relatively certain about its answer. If all manually acquired sources are used, Watson
has a precision@70 of 84% without expansion, and 88% with the expansion enabled.
This can make the difference between winning or losing a Jeopardy! match against
verystrongopponents. Wealsoindicateforeachsourcecorpustheprobabilitythresh-
old that was used to decide whether to answer. Watson’s confidence estimates reflect
the amount of supporting evidence found for the answers in the knowledge sources.
If source expansion is used, Watson can often retrieve additional evidence for correct
answers, resulting in higher probability estimates. Thus it can be more conservative
while still answering the same number of questions, i.e. the confidence bar is higher.
On the other hand, if there is little supporting evidence in the expanded sources,
Watson can be more certain that a candidate answer is incorrect and is less likely to
give a wrong answer.
6.5. REDUNDANCY VS. COVERAGE 103
Regular J! Final J! TREC 11
All Sources 80.49% 66.79% 70.22%
Expansion 82.34% 67.90% 72.81%
(+2.3%) (+1.7%) (+3.7%)
Table6.18: RatioofaccuracyovercandidaterecallforJeopardy! andTRECquestions
when using sources that were expanded with web search results.
6.5 Redundancy vs. Coverage
We have seen