. The
frequencies of these categories are given in Table 5.2 for the topic Mother Teresa and
in Table 5.3 for the topic Iran-Iraq War. As an aggregate measure of inter-annotator
agreement, we also report Cohen’s κ coefficient [Carletta, 1996].
While there are no universal guidelines for the interpretation of κ statistics, scores
above0.9areoftenconsideredtoindicateexcellentoralmostperfectagreement[Fleiss,
1981, Landis and Koch, 1977]. These interpretations may overstate the level of agree-
ment since there are many instances with inconsistent labels. However, the results
do show that there is little ambiguity about the relevance of the vast majority of
instances, be they paragraphs, sentences or tokens. We found that the annotation
task is fairly straightforward most of the time as we often encountered large blocks of
obviously relevant text (e.g. the main body of text in an encyclopedia article about
the topic) or irrelevant text (e.g. navigation elements and advertisement in web pages,
or entirely irrelevant pages). On the other hand, there are borderline cases such as
marginally informative content (e.g. quotes by Mother Teresa, or in-depth reports
of weapons deployed in the Iran-Iraq War), information that may be out of context
(e.g. headlines and list items such as International recognition or Iranian counterof-
fensives) and opinions (e.g. criticism and praise of Mother Teresa, or biased accounts
of the Iran-Iraq War). In such cases the annotation guidelines in Section 4.3.1 are
particularly helpful, but annotators may still disagree on whether a text snippet
is informative (item 2 in the guidelines), self-contained (item 3) or a substantiated
opinion (item 5). In some cases we also found it difficult or time-consuming to accu-
rately apply the annotation guidelines. For instance, short snippets of relevant text
(e.g. Mother Teresa of Calcutta, or Iran-Iraq War, 1980-1988) are easily overlooked
5.1. DATASET 53
egasU
rotatonnA
tnaveleR
#
latoT
#
cipoT
stegguN
stegguN
ML
A
)%3.1(
541
987,