 gains invariably get smaller. Often, the impact of new
algorithmsdependsontheorderinwhichtheyareaddedbecausedifferentapproaches
address similar issues and the total headroom for improvements is limited. Yet we
found that the impact of our source expansion method did not diminish as Watson
was improved over time because advances in other system components also helped
better utilize the additional source content. For instance, more correct answers could
be found in the expanded sources because of improved question analysis, search and
answer extraction algorithms, and advances in answer scoring helped cope with the
addednoise. BecausethegainsfromSEarelargelyorthogonaltootherimprovements,
it is likely that this method will also increase the performance of other QA systems
even if they are already well tuned for their tasks. In addition, we expect that SE will
beusefulforothernaturallanguageprocessingapplicationsthatrequirelargeamounts
of relevant information in a given knowledge domain, and we will give examples of
tasks that may benefit from our method in Section 9.3.
Considering the significant and consistent performance impact of source expan-
sion, it seems surprising that not more research has been devoted to the selection
or generation of relevant source material for QA. One explanation is that most QA
systems were developed for evaluation efforts in which reference corpora were pro-
vided to the participants. For example, in TREC evaluations each answer had to be
supported with a document in a given newswire source or a blog corpus [Dang et al.,
2007]. Additional resources could be leveraged to identify and score candidates, but
the final answer had to be found in the reference sources to facilitate its verification
by human assessors. In real-world applications, however, it usually does not matter
to the user which information sources are used by a QA system, as long as questions
are answered with high precision and recall. It is also possible that source acquisition
has not been the focus of attention because it was thought of as a manual process
that offers few opportunities for scientific work. Instead, many publications by QA
researchers were concerned with algorithms for effective question analysis, retrieval,
answer extraction and scoring. We hope to have shown in this thesis that statistical
source expansion also involves a variety of interesting research problems in the fields
of machine learning, information retrieval, and natural language processing.
While