incipled manner. Our sequential model resembles a hidden Markov model (HMM)
with two states for relevant and irrelevant nuggets, but the probabilities of state
transitions are estimated dynamically based on transition features that measure the
lexical coherence of the text at nugget boundaries. In the following, we introduce
these transition features (Section 8.2.1) and derive a graphical model that integrates
thetransitionfeatureswiththepreviouslydiscussedrelevancefeatures(Section8.2.2).
In Sections 8.2.3 and 8.2.4, the sequential model is compared to the logistic re-
gression models that solely rely on relevance features. We show that it outperforms
the independent LR model on both markup-based text nuggets and sentence-level
nuggets. The sequential model also yields small but consistent gains in ranking per-
formance over the LR model with features of adjacent instances on both types of
nuggets, and it uses fewer parameters and requires less time for training.
8.2.1 Transition Features
We observed that text nuggets appearing in the same document are usually not inde-
pendent, but relevant nuggets are likely to be surrounded by other relevant nuggets,
and irrelevant nuggets by other irrelevant ones. Thus, using the notation L for the
t
label of the t-th nugget in a document, 1 for relevant and 0 for irrelevant, we would
intuitively expect the following relations:
P(L = 1|L = 1) > P(L = 1|L = 0),
t t−1 t t−1
P(L = 0|L = 0) > P(L = 0|L = 1).
t t−1 t t−1
Sequential models such as hidden Markov models would use static estimates of these
transition probabilities to transfer evidence of relevant text from one text nugget to
subsequent nuggets.
However, we found that transitions between relevant and irrelevant text are not
at all equally likely at different positions in a document. For instance, transitions
are more likely if the structure and vocabulary of the text nuggets change abruptly,
and less likely within a coherent window of text. To leverage this additional source
of information, we developed a set of features which are indicative of the coherence
of the text on either side of a given boundary. These transition features, along with
