oriented document collections such as Wikipedia are widely used for
question answering and other natural language processing applications. Furthermore,
there exist topic-oriented sources for many specialized knowledge domains, such as
dictionaries and encyclopedias of medical, legal or financial knowledge. Nevertheless,
real-world applications and evaluation tasks often benefit from or require sources that
are not topic-oriented. For example, the Jeopardy! QA challenge can be addressed
7.2. EXPANSION OF UNSTRUCTURED SOURCES 119
more effectively by leveraging additional sources such as world literature and news
archives, andparticipantsintheTRECQAevaluationswererequiredtousenewswire
corpora and blogs as reference sources [Dang et al., 2007].
These document collections cannot directly be expanded with the topic-oriented
source expansion pipeline since a document may cover multiple topics, or the same
topic may be discussed in more than one document. However, we can transform an
unstructured text corpus in which there exists no injective mapping between docu-
ments and topics into a topic-oriented source, which can subsequently be expanded
with the approach introduced in Chapter 4. For this purpose, the techniques used
to expand a seed corpus with content extracted from a locally stored source can be
adapted to (1) discover topics that have high coverage in an unstructured source, and
(2) generate pseudo-documents from relevant text nuggets about those topics. In the
following, we describe these transformation steps in more detail. Their implementa-
tion and an evaluation using unstructured seed corpora is left as a promising direction
for future research (Section 9.3).
It may be necessary to automatically discover topics in an unstructured source
without the aid of a topic-oriented document collection such as Wikipedia. For exam-
ple, when expanding a crawl of recent news or a collection of publications in a specific
research area, a topic-oriented resource that covers the most important topics may
not be available. In that case, topics could be identified in the unstructured corpus
using named entity recognizers, markup and other metadata, pattern learning and
matching techniques, or lookups in dictionaries and ontologies. When transforming
a newswire corpus into a topic-oriented source, named entities such as person names,
organizations and locations that are mentioned in the news articles may be used as
cand