crossword clues “l” A cradle song (7) (Answer: Lullaby)
Table 3.3: Examples of Jeopardy! categories and clues.
our experiments to more accurately estimate actual system performance. When we
evaluated intermediate search results, however, it was not feasible to manually judge
all retrieved passages and documents, and thus we did not further extend the answer
keys. As a result, we systematically underestimate true search performance, but this
does not affect the validity of our comparative evaluations.
3.2.2 Jeopardy!
The second question answering task on which we evaluated our source expansion
approach is the Jeopardy! TV quiz show. The Jeopardy! task mainly consists of
factoid questions whose answers can be found in text corpora such as encyclopedias
or dictionaries, but also includes puzzle questions that require additional computa-
tion and inference. Jeopardy! questions (also called clues) are given in the form of
statements rather than in interrogative form, and are associated with a category that
may provide additional useful or even essential information. A game show is divided
into two rounds of regular Jeopardy! questions followed by a single Final Jeopardy!
question. In each round, the contestants are asked 30 questions from 6 different cat-
egories. Thus there are up to 61 questions in total (in some games not all questions
are revealed). Final Jeopardy! questions are usually more difficult, and contestants
are given more time to answer. Examples of Jeopardy! categories and questions are
shown in Table 3.3.
26 CHAPTER 3. FUNDAMENTALS
Datasets consisting of past Jeopardy! questions and their answers were retrieved
from J! Archive3. The answers were augmented manually with additional correct
answers found by IBM’s Watson QA system (see Section 3.4.2) to allow for more
accurate automatic evaluations of system performance. Since the answer keys were
updated regularly and since questions in Jeopardy! are usually designed to only have
a single correct answer, the automatic evaluation results reported for this task closely
reflect true system performance.
The Jeopardy! challenge differs from factoid questions in TREC in several impor-
tant ways that affect the potential impact of the proposed source expansion approach
[Ferrucci et al., 2009]:
•