
can be indexed and searched on a single node.
Aside from Wikipedia and Wiktionary, we expanded two smaller document col-
lections that are helpful for answering Jeopardy! and TREC questions: World Book
and Microsoft Encarta. Table 6.4 shows statistics about the sizes of these sources and
their expansions. Both sources are encyclopedias that are more similar to Wikipedia
than to Wiktionary in terms of the distribution of their topics, and thus we used the
same configuration of the SE system as for Wikipedia. Since these sources consist of
relatively few articles and mostly cover popular topics, we expanded all documents
6.3. SEARCH EXPERIMENTS 79
without performing popularity-based seed selection. In addition, we expanded two
more sources, Encyclopedia Britannica and Columbia Encyclopedia, but QA search
performance did not improve further. This is not surprising since these sources are
comparatively small (123 MB and 55 MB respectively) and their topics are mostly
covered in Wikipedia and the other encyclopedias. Thus we did not use their expan-
sions in our experiments.
6.3 Search Experiments
We evaluated the impact of source expansion on search results using Jeopardy! and
TREC datasets. In the following, we present experimental results for both Watson
(Sections 6.3.1 and 6.3.2) and OpenEphyra (Sections 6.3.3 and 6.3.4). We also take a
closer look at how our method affects the search rankings generated by the two QA
systems in Section 6.3.5.
6.3.1 Experimental Setup using Watson
In the experiments with Watson, we used the following text corpora as baselines for
source expansion: (1) Wikipedia, (2) Wiktionary, and (3) a large collection of exist-
ing sources that were manually identified to be relevant for Jeopardy! and TREC in
an iterative error analysis performed by the Watson development team. The collec-
tion (subsequently referred to as All Sources) comprises 25.6 GB of text, including
WikipediaandtheotherencyclopediasinSection6.2, dictionariessuchasWiktionary,
thesauri, newswire sources such as a New York Times archive, literature and other
sourcesoftriviaknowledge[Chu-