
models obtained through supervised learning or active learning.... 131
8.3 MAP of linear and sequential relevance models............. 140
8.4 P-values for all pairs of linear and sequential relevance models..... 142
Chapter 1
Introduction
In Section 1.1 we motivate the need for source expansion techniques using automatic
questionansweringas asample application. Our statisticalapproachtosource expan-
sion is introduced in Section 1.2 and the contributions of our work are summarized
in Section 1.3. Finally, we outline the structure of this thesis in Section 1.4.
1.1 Motivation
Source expansion has an important application in question answering (QA), the task
of retrieving accurate answers to natural language questions from knowledge sources.
In QA, it is common to locally store and index text collections that provide good
coverage of the information required for a given question domain. For instance, en-
cyclopedias and dictionaries are useful sources for answering trivia questions, and
newswire corpora provide relevant information about politics and the economy. How-
ever, these resources may not contain the answers to all questions, and it may be
difficult to find the answers even if they are supported by the sources. For example,
the terminology used to describe the answer in the text corpus may be different from
the keywords in the question, relevant information may be distributed over multiple
documents, or additional inference may be required to derive the answer. To improve
the coverage of local sources and to facilitate the extraction and validation of answers,
the sources can be expanded automatically with additional related information and
paraphrases of existing information found in large, external text corpora such as the
Web. This thesis presents a fully implemented statistical approach that performs this
source expansion task effectively, and compares different strategies for obtaining and
selecting relevant information to be added to a given seed corpus. We further demon-
strate that source expansion consistently and significantly improves QA performance
on large datasets drawn from the Jeopardy! quiz show and TREC evaluations.
Source expansion (SE) is an effective strategy for improving QA performance
because it addresses the most common types of failures that occur in state-of-the-art
QA systems:
1. Source failures, i.e. the sources do not contain the information sought by a
