simplest aspects of intelligence. From this perspective, a somewhat different definition of intel­
ligence seems needed to better capture today’s view of the underlying problems. This new
“Turing test” should emphasize the development of perceptual, motor, and language com­
petence. In particular, many would agree that a system that can acquire visual, motor, and
language skills should be called intelligent. This revised test introduces in an explicit way the
problem of learning as the core of any attempt at understanding intelligence.
Within computer vision itself, the next frontier is represented by the problem of learning.
Bringing together the two separate disciplines of machine perception and machine learning is an
exciting and promising goal. It allows more robust practical systems and flexible devices for
visual inspection, and may also have deep implications for understanding biological vision.
There are different levels of learning in vision: from the problem of adapting parameters in
preprogrammed vision algorithms, to the more challenging problem of learning to synthesize
specific vision algorithms (such as stereo) from examples of desired performance (depth maps).
The ultimate challenge is to develop a machine that learns to see, somewhat like a child comes
to acquire visual skills.
Learning in vision is especially challenging from the computational point of view. Algo­
rithms for learning can be computationally expensive, since the “learning” or estimation stage
is usually a non-convex optimization problem over many hundreds or thousands of parameters.
These problems are grand challenge problems themselves: they may require computational
power that are 100 times faster than real time.
3.2.2. Integration of vision modules
A vision system should have the ability to create representations of its visible environment
if it is designed to autonomously interact with its environment and perform various tasks related
to navigation, manipulation and recognition. Such representations are needed for several proper­
ties of the environment like shape and motion, as well as color and other material properties.
November 23,1992 10
Extraction of these geometric and physical properties of the environment on the basis of image
information is an inverse problem that requires modeling of the image-formation process as well
as the development of geometric and physical constraints relating 3-D information to image pro­
perties or cues.
Research during the decade of the 1980’s demonstrated that these inverse problems are
undetermined or ill-posed, i.e., their solution does not exist, or