 communication technologies as essentials “to satisfy national needs from a variety of per­
spectives including: technology, science applications, human resources, and technology transi­
tion.” Computer vision and SNLP are two of these grand challenge applications which “often
cut across various agencies and missions” and “are related to solving very intensive large scale
computing problems.”
The workshop was held on February 21 and 22, 1992 in Arlington, Virginia, with 23
experts from academia and industry attending and 12 program directors from NSF serving as
observers. Participants in the workshop were divided into three areas, with a vice-chair
identified for each. Before the workshop, each vice-chair had solicited position statements from
members of his area and coordinated discussions of issues through electronic mail. Based on
comments received during the workshop, the vice-chair, in consultation with members of the
area, prepared a summary report. After the workshop, the summary report was refined and was
posted in early March on many electronic bulletin boards with areas related to the focus of this
workshop.
This article was prepared on the basis of the preliminary report distributed in March and
further discussions among the participants through electronic mail. In preparing this report, each
vice-chair first assembled ideas and material from the workshop participants in his area and
prepared an initial draft of a section. Based on the three sections supplied by the vice-chairs, the
workshop chair integrated the material, refining the discussion so there is coherent flow and bal­
ance between the sections.
This report is a collection of ideas expressed by the participants. It does not necessarily
represent a consensus among all the participants. Further, ideas expressed in this report do not
reflect the official position of the sponsoring agency.
1. “Grand Challenges: High Performance Computing and Communications,” The FY 1992 U.S. Research and Development Program,
Committee on Physical, Mathematical, and Engineering Sciences, Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology,
Office of Science and Technology Policy, Washington, DC, 1992.
November 23,1992 3
2.2. The Workshop Charter
The goal of the workshop was to identify near-term (within five years) and long-term
(beyond five years) problems and potential approaches/research directions in grand challenge
applications in computer vision, SNLP, and artificial intelligence (AI). Attendees focused