 in Athens, Greece and Computer Science at the
University of Rochester, NY (Ph.D. 1986). He is currently an Associate Professor at the Depart­
ment of Computer Science of the University of Maryland, College Park, and is affiliated with the
Institute for Advanced Computer Studies. He is also the Head of the Computer Vision Labora­
tory of the Center for Automation Research of the same University. His research interests are in
the area of Computer Vision and Robotics.
Ruzena Bajcsy received her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering at the Slovak Technical
University in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia in 1967 and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford
University in 1972. Since 1972, she has been on the faculty of the Computer and Information
Science Department at the University of Pennsylvania, where she served as its chairperson
between 1984 and 1989. She has worked in the general area of machine perception, covering the
whole spectrum of problems (segmentation, 3-D shape recognition, multiresolution problems,
etc.) that the field of computer vision involves, and has extended it to other modalities, in partic­
ular to touch. She has built the GRASP Laboratory. She is a Founding Fellow of the AAAI and
a Fellow of the IEEE since January 1992.
Dana Ballard obtained his Ph.D. degree from the University of California at Irvine in 1974.
During 1974-1975 he had a post-doctoral appointment at the Laboratorio Tecnologie
Biomediche in Rome, Italy. Since 1975 he has been at the University of Rochester in the Com­
puter Science Department where he has the rank of professor. He is the coauthor with Professor
Brown of Computer Vision, a standard text. Ballard’s current research focus is in computational
theories of vision that account for the real-time performance. In 1985 with Chris Brown, he led
led a team that designed and built a high speed binocular camera control system capable of
simulating human eye movements.
Doug DeGroot received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Texas at
Austin in 1981. He then joined IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center where he worked on the
design team for an intemally-parallel, numeric and vector processor based on the IBM 801 pro­
cessor architecture. He then became VP of R&D at