 on
answering the following questions:
1) What grand challenge applications in computer vision, SNLP, and AI can benefit by the
availability of HPCC systems?
2) What research problems need to be solved in these grand challenge application areas?
3) How should HPCC systems be designed so that they can better support solutions in these
areas?
We have chosen to cover the three areas in this workshop in the order of computer vision,
SNLP, and AI. All three areas are important grand challenge application areas. Moreover, they
are closely related, since vision, speech, and natural language are three primary modes of per­
ception and communication in humans, and knowledge acquisition and intelligent reasoning is
needed for augmenting deficiencies and missing information. We do not attempt to cover all the
aspects in these three areas because they are too broad to be discussed in a single workshop, and
we will not do justice even if we try to focus on a small portion. Rather, we concentrate on
issues related to how high performance computing can help provide new solutions and insights
into solving problems in these areas. We also examine new applications where AI, vision,
speech, and natural language can be integrated.
2.3. Organization of this Report
This article is divided into three major sections, covering the areas of computer vision,
SNLP, and AI. Each section is further subdivided into four subsections: grand challenge appli­
cations, fundamental science and enabling technologies, implications for system architectures,
and infrastructure support. The subsection on grand challenge applications illustrates applica­
tions in the area and relates them to applications in the other areas covered in this article. The
subsection on fundamental science and enabling technologies discusses fundamental research
problems that need to be solved. We discuss issues that are application specific, as well as com­
mon issues; examples of the latter are machine learning and heuristic search. The subsection on
November 23,1992 4
implications for system architectures highlights requirements of each application area and
discusses how computers under the HPCC Initiative should be designed to better serve the appli­
cation. The last subsection on infrastructure support presents what advanced infrastructure tools
(hardware and software) are needed to support research in each area.
November 23,1992 5
3. COMPUTER VISION
Computer vision has two goals. From the engineering viewpoint, the goal is to build auto­
nomous systems which