 is not unique and does not depend
continuously on the data. For example, recovering 3-D shape using cues, such as shading, tex­
ture or contour, are ill-posed problems. The same holds true for recovering properties such as
image motion and discontinuities.
It is becoming clear from work of the past few years that if a vision system integrates infor­
mation from several cues, such as motion, stereo, texture, and contour, then several inverse prob­
lems become well posed and stable, simply because more information is taken into account. A
grand challenge for computer vision research in the 1990’s is, therefore, the development of a
sound framework for integrating vision modules, with the goal of creating robust environmental
descriptions. Although several alternatives could be outlined, it is not yet obvious how one
should proceed towards the solution of this problem. However, it is known that a solution
requires a vast amount of computational power so that multiple processes can cooperatively util­
ize various image cues and exchange information in high-speed links.
3.2.3. Model acquisition
In each of the applications described above, an important component of a complete vision
system is the use of models describing surfaces and objects of interest for model-based scene
analysis and for robust and efficient scene interpretation. Examples include models of manufac­
turing parts, roads, and vehicles in the IVHS domain, and buildings, rivers, and clouds in
environmental monitoring. Consequently, an important open research problem is the automation
of the model-acquisition process. Successful solutions to this problem will foster rapid prototyp­
ing of vision systems and benefit other areas such as computer graphics, robotics, and
geometric-model based problems.
Constructing appropriate object models is, at best, a very time-consuming task. Currently,
programmers handcraft 3-D models of objects, surfaces and features that can subsequently be
used in tasks such as object recognition, navigation, and surveillance. To successfully scale up
November 23,1992 11
prototype vision systems so that they can handle applications with a large number of complex
objects, better methods for automatically acquiring these models are essential. This encom­
passes several critical problems:
1) How can more general classes of real objects be modeled?
2) How can procedures be defined for automatically acquiring shape models?
3) How can robust object- and