
5.1. Grand Challenge Applications
In this subsection, we present eight specific applications requiring substantial innovation
and breakthroughs in AI and in systems research. These applications were what the workshop
participants thought would be of national significance and potentially achievable in a decade’s
time. Although many others were discussed, these were identified here to give a sense for what
might be accomplished in the future with significant advances in basic research and system
developments in AI.
1) Electronic librarian. One of the grand challenge applications in AI is to design a com­
puterized electronic librarian that knows how to navigate through the vast amount of knowledge
and information in an electronic library and provide useful information. Besides communicating
November 23,1992 27
with users in a form close to natural language (Section 4.1), the system must be able to access
databases in a variety of query languages, should update the databases automatically when new
knowledge and retrieval methods are available, and assist clients in locating and utilizing infor­
mation within an extremely large collection. Such a system will be immensely valuable to
scientists and researchers. It could, for example, provide a natural language interface to users,
scan the vast amount of knowledge and information, propose tests to run, find the right software
and computer systems, run the programs, and report the results.
In designing the electronic librarian, information retrieval is an important problem to be
addressed. The librarian would employ a mixture of AI, statistical inference, and linguistic
analysis to locate information which is of interest to patrons of the library. Intelligence is also
required in presenting the results of the search to the user and guiding the user as he or she
browses the contents of the database. The challenge to this problem is two-fold. First, current
techniques have been developed on relatively small databases and are only now being used and
evaluated on databases with a few gigabytes of data. An electronic library will require that these
methods be used on files containing tens, hundreds, and eventually thousands of gigabytes.
Additional research is needed to ensure that full text search is as easy to use on these large files
as it is on the more modest files of today. Second, most full text-retrieval methods to date are
concerned with reference searches in which the goal is to locate all documents pertaining to a
given topic. Future full text-retrieval techniques will need to adapt