 to the development of techniques that allow automatic acquisition of linguistic struc­
ture. We illustrate in the following examples the importance of statistical techniques for work
with large corpora.
1) Semantic constraints — determining what words can meaningfully appear as the subject
or object of a particular verb, for example — are critical for analyzing natural language, be it in
text or spoken form. Building up such constraints by hand, however, is a very time-consuming
and error-prone task. An alternative to the manual approach involves the automatic analysis of
November 23,1992 20
co-occurrence patterns in a text corpus. In this approach, a text is analyzed syntactically and
various patterns (such as subject-verb pairs) are gathered. Word similarities are computed based
on the frequency with which words occur in the same context (such as the subject of the same
verb). Based on these similarities, words are gathered into classes, and the word-level co­
occurrence patterns are generalized into patterns stated in terms of word classes.
This approach has been tried on small corpora with some limited success. However, since
we are looking for co-occurrence patterns involving very large numbers of word pairs, it is clear
that proper evaluations will require large corpora, and accordingly expanded computing
resources to handle these corpora.
2) Syntactic constraints. In developing robust SNLP systems, hand-crafted grammars are
inadequate because they fail to provide a wide coverage and are very brittle, rendering them not
useful for processing speech and free texts. Techniques have been designed for automatic
acquisition of linguistic structure from large corpora, some of which are annotated in various
ways. These techniques have to be lexically sensitive; hence, they have to be integrated with
techniques for discovering semantic constraints. To support these acquisition techniques, high
performance computing and storage resources are needed.
Text collections of several gigabytes are available; however, with current computers, these
would require months or even years to analyze. Computing power at the levels projected for
HPCC would allow such analysisrto be done in days, permitting experimentation with different
analysis methods. Moreover, with iterative procedures, partial syntactic and semantic informa­
tion from an initial text analysis can be used to produce improved parses, thereby improving syn­
tactic as well as semantic information.
4.2.2. Search strategies for language analysis