-television authoring tools and large well-
organized distributed libraries of source material. Very large amount of funds have already gone
into computer vision technology; transferring some of this technology to the educational arena is
an important way to capitalize on this existing investment.
7) Turbulent flow analysis. Understanding turbulence is important in applications such as
weather forecasting, designing aircrafts and ships, and noise control. Turbulence research
creates a number of challenging problems for computer vision and image processing. Research­
ers in this area, however, are overwhelmed by the huge amount of three-dimensional (3-D) time
varying vectors of data for modeling turbulent flow. Techniques in computer vision and AI can
be of tremendous help in understanding and in reducing the complexity of algorithms in fluid
flow. For instance, computer vision can aid in tracking coherent patterns in fluid flow, and unsu­
pervised clustering and learning methods can be applied to classify coherent patterns in turbulent
flows. In order for these to be possible, extensions must be made in existing image and signal
processing techniques that were designed for scalar data, and in conventional computer vision
methods that work mainly on surface data.
3.2. Fundamental Science and Enabling Technologies
Some of the main scientific issues underlying the applications are: i) machine learning, ii)
surface reconstruction, inverse optics, and integration, iii) model acquisition, and iv) perception
and action.
3.2.1. Learning
Learning has long been a central problem in understanding intelligence and developing
intelligent machines. For many years the “Turing test” has represented an operational
definition of intelligence against which most workers in AI have implicitly measured their own
goals and achievements: if a computer behaves in a way indistinguishable from a human person
then it can be called intelligent, even if its “intelligence” has been painstakingly programmed
by a very skilled human being.
November 23,1992 9
Consistent with Turing’s implicit definition, intelligence was perceived thirty years ago as
mainly reasoning, problem solving, proving theorems, or playing chess. In contrast, we realize
today how “intelligent” lower animals are and how complex are the problems that our senses
routinely solve. We also realize how intractable the problem of developing hardware and
software is and how much of it would be needed in order to replicate even a small part of the
