time spontaneous speech recognition and understanding (on a
large vocabulary, and possibly even for multiple languages, if the library is multi-lingual). The
system must also support dialogue modeling, language generation and speech synthesis (all in
real time) in order to interact with the user.
b) Machine translation (MT) capabilities will be crucial for using documents in different
languages as well for translating documents into other languages for their wider distribution.
The major challenge for MT of texts is to bring the quality of text-oriented systems up to a level
where everyday use is economically viable. The complexity and productiveness of human
language, together with the difficulty of developing language-understanding and generation
November 23,1992 19
capabilities, constitute the major obstacles for designing MT systems. It is widely perceived that
in practice these obstacles translate into difficulties of accumulating and manipulating very large
quantities of knowledge about the language and about the world. In particular, techniques for
automatic acquisition of lexical, grammatical and discourse knowledge are essential for
significant progress in this area.
2) Spoken language translation. This capability will revolutionize human-human commun­
ication, involving applications in telephone-based as well as face-to-face modes of communica­
tion. It will improve international trade, communications among government and other national
organizations, as well as activities in these organizations. Together with MT of written
language, it will allow translation using facsimile machines, and will resolve the worldwide
bottleneck in the quantity of documents that cannot be translated at the present speed and cost.
A central issue in the development of spoken language systems is speed of processing. In
this environment, the complexity of speech recognition is exacerbated by the complexity of
natural language processing, since the amount of knowledge to be manipulated by the systems is
significantly larger than in text translation. Moreover, there is a need to improve computer sys­
tems for speech-to-speech translation, with the aim of increasing the integration of the various
component modules — speech recognition, language analysis (including morphology, syntax,
semantics, pragmatics and discourse), message-content manipulation, message planning,
language generation, and speech synthesis.
4.2. Fundamental Science and Enabling Technologies
4.2.1. Statistical analysis in corpus-based speech and language processing
The availability of large corpora, including some corpora annotated in various ways, has
already led