 a 1986 NSF Presidential
Young Investigator Award, and the first UCLA Computer Science Department Distinguished
Teaching Award, in 1989.
Stephen E. Levinson received his Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from the Univer足
sity of Rhode Island in 1974. He has served as a design engineer at General Dynamics between
1966 and 1969, and a J. Willard Gibbs Instructorship in Computer Science at Yale University
between 1974 and 1976. In 1976, he joined Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, NJ. He is
currently head of the Linguistics Research Department at AT&T Bell Laboratories where he
directs research in Speech Synthesis, Speech Recognition and Spoken Language Translation.
Dr. Levinson is a fellow of the IEEE and the Acoustical Society of America. He is on the edi足
torial board of Speech Technology, a founding editor of Computer Speech and Language, and a
member of the IEEE Signal Processing Society Technical Directions Committee.
Daniel P. Miranker is an Associate Professor of Computer Science at the University of
Texas at Austin. He earned a B.S. (1979) in mathematics at M.I.T. and a Ph.D. (1987) in
November 23,1992 42
Computer Science at Columbia University with a thesis on the parallel execution of expert-
system programs on DADO, a 1,023 processor multicomputer. He is co-patent holder on the
DADO architecture. Many copies of the DADO 2 were built and are still in use. Prof. Miranker
has been at the University of Texas since 1986. His work there encompasses compilation of
rule-based programs for high performance execution, targeting parallel supercomputers, data足
base systems and real-time environments.
Nelson Morgan is the group leader for the Computer Engineering Department (called the
Realization Group) at the International Computer Science Institute (ICSI), a non-profit research
laboratory closely associated with the EECS Department at U.C. Berkeley. He is also an
Adjunct Professor in the EECS Department. In the areas of speech and brain wave processing he
has developed connectionist approaches to signal analysis, as well as hardware and software sys足
tems to speed research. His current interests include the design of algorithms, architectures, and
systems for parallel signal processing and pattern recognition, particularly using connectionist
paradigms