 Preference: Following your intuition as a human, which of the two systems does a better job at producing values, rights,
and duties for the given situation? Do not overthink this question, just follow your gut.
Rules
When possible, avoiding saying that the two systems are equal for each dimension, try to pick one or the other.
Do not overthink your responses. Some examples can be quite challenging, and it is important to follow your instinct once you have
read each response carefully.
This task is still being developed, so please let us know what is confusing and what information would help you complete the task in
the future! We include a feedback box at the bottom of the HIT.
Situation: ${situation}
System A: System B:
${respa} ${respb}
Which system is more correct on average?
In other words, which system makes fewer mistakes, or produces a higher fraction of relevant responses?
System A
About equal (try to avoid this answer unless necessary)
System B
Which is more complete?
Specifically focus on which response is more comprehensive in capturing the relevant values, rights, and duties for the given situation.
System A
About equal (try to avoid this answer unless necessary)
System B
Which response do you prefer overall?
Consider your answers to the previous questions, and follow your intuition for which system produced a better set of responses for the given situation.
System A
About equal (try to avoid this answer unless necessary)
System B
(Optional) Please let us know if anything was unclear, if you
experienced any issues, or if you have any other feedback for us.
Submit
Figure14:BatchValue,Right,andDutycomparisonagainstGPT-4.
Full Instructions (Expand/Collapse)
WARNING Current employees of the University of Washington, family members of UW employees, and UW students involved in this
particular research are not eligible to complete this HIT.
CONTENT WARNING This task may contain content that some individuals may find unpleasant, offensive, or disturbing, including
sexually suggestive or racially insensitive situations. Worker discretion is advised. Feel free to exit the task at any time.
Thank you for participating in this HIT! It's important to read the instructions thoroughly before proceeding.
Your task is to evaluate moral reasoning about specific actions based on values, rights, and duties as defined
below:
Definitions (Expand