 same social protection
right to protection
. -> Right to parental support
24https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of- 20 Everyone has the right to education.
Education shall be free, at
human-rights
least in the elementary and to marry
fundamental stages. Elementary 30 Everyone has the right to own
education shall be compulsory. property alone as well as in
Technical and professional association with others. -> The
education shall be made generally right to property
available and higher education 31 Everyone has the right to freedom of
shall be equally accessible to thought, conscience and religion
all on the basis of merit. -> The ; this right includes freedom to
right to education change his religion or belief,
21 Everyone has the right to life, and freedom, either alone or in
liberty and security of person. community with others and in
-> Right to personal liberty, public or private, to manifest
Right to life his religion or belief in
22 No one shall be held in slavery or teaching, practice, worship and
servitude; slavery and the slave observance. -> Right to form one’
trade shall be prohibited in all s own beliefs
their forms. -> The right to not 32 Everyone has the right of equal
be enslaved access to public service in his
23 Everyone has the right to country. -> Right to access
recognition everywhere as a services
person before the law. -> Right 33 Everyone, as a member of society,
to recognition has the right to social security
24 Everyone has the right to an and is entitled to realization,
effective remedy by the competent through national effort and
national tribunals for acts international co-operation and in
violating the fundamental rights accordance with the organization
granted him by the constitution and resources of each State, of
or by law. -> The right to due the economic, social and cultural
process rights indispensable for his
25 Everyone is entitled in full dignity and the free development
equality to a fair and public of his personality. -> Right to
hearing by an independent and social and economic welfare
impartial tribunal, in the 34 Everyone who works has the right to
determination of his rights and just and favourable remuneration
obligations and of any criminal ensuring for himself and his
charge against him. -> The right family an existence worthy of
to a fair trial human dignity, and supplemented,
26 No