, but if continue their behavior [either]
not, you might be violating their
24
right. [either] 25 Duties:
9 26 - Duty of beneficence: Actively
10 Duties: contributing to the well-being of
11 - Duty to Respect Others’ Property: others, like providing
You have an obligation not to assistance to a drug addict in
take or use what is not yours ( seeking help and support [
the coupon) without permission. [ supports, imperfect]
opposes, perfect] 27 - Duty of non-maleficence:
12 - Duty to Support Friends: Helping Refraining from causing any
or cooperating with your friends direct harm to the drug addict or
may be a moral responsibility. If enabling their addiction further
using the coupon benefits your [either, imperfect]
friend, you may be fulfilling 28 - Duty of care: If the person giving
this duty. [either, imperfect] support is a family member,
13 ----------------- friend, or professional, there
14 giving support to a drug addict -> may be an obligation to ensure
15 Values: the welfare and health of the
16 - Compassion: Exhibiting drug addict [either, perfect]
understanding and empathy towards 29 -----------------
the drug addict’s situation, 30 Marrying a woman with a nice
which may stem from various personality ->
personal struggles or 31 Values:
32 - Happiness: A happy relationship is
16Theseexampleswererandomlyselected,apartfromfiltering valued in this situation.
out any situations with offensive, NSFW, racially insensitive, or Marrying someone with a nice
explicit material that may be contained in up to 5% of the user- personality can contribute
submittedsituations.
positively to both individuals’
17Originally, we wanted to distinguish from “perfect” duties
well-being and satisfaction in
(owed to a particular individual) vs. “imperfect” duties (general
life. [supports]
duties not owed to anyone in particular) as well; we ignored this
informationwhenconstructingthefinaldataset.
33 - Compatibility: Choosing a partner means taking it from others. [
with a nice personality reflects supports]
the value of compatibility in 51 - Right to property: The person
relationships, as it signifies a being robbed has a right to their
shared