 and societies, shaping goals,
motivations, and preferences.
Rights: Rights are the entitlements or claims that individuals have against others or society, which are usually based on moral or legal grounds.
These can be positive rights (e.g., the right to education, healthcare, or free speech) or negative rights (e.g., the right to not be harmed, enslaved, or
discriminated against). Rights serve to protect the fundamental interests of individuals and establish certain boundaries that others must respect.
Duties: Duties are the moral obligations or responsibilities that individuals owe to others or to society at large. They are categorical reasons for
doing or refraining from doing something, independent of whether we want to do or refrain from doing that thing. Duties can be weighty reasons, not
easily overridden by competing concerns, and their violation may justify blame and self-blame (guilt). Duties can arise from relationships, social roles,
or moral principles, and they guide our actions and decisions.
You'll evaluate the output (marked in purple) in two steps:
Task 1: Evaluate Output Quality
For each action, you will be presented with values, rights, and duties that make sense to consider when determining the morality of the action (see definitions below).
Your job is to determine if these factors are high quality. A good output would be:
Relevant: The value/right/duty should be a relevant thing to consider when thinking about the action and fits the definition of value/right/duty.
Sensible: The explanation should make sense and be coherent.
Reasonable: Is it a reasonable thing to think? Even if you disagree with the explanation, could someone else find it reasonable?
Note: If you're unsure, go with your instincts. If you find yourself not coming across any bad examples, that's okay - it might just be the luck of the draw.
Task 2: Evaluate Support or Opposition
Next, you'll see a guess for each explanation on whether it supports doing the action, opposes doing the action, or could either support or oppose the action
depending on the interpretation or context. Your job is to determine if this guess is correct based on the provided explanation.
Missing Output
If you feel that something is missing, you can check the "Missing value/right/duties?" checkbox and write a few words about what's missing in the text box. It can be
as