OT Challenge.
Most tracking models before ATOM [9] were only focused on the develop-
ment of powerful classifiers. The problem of accurate target state estimation
has been overlooked. To this end, ATOM architecture consists of dedicated tar-
getestimationandclassificationcomponents.Thistargetestimationcomponent
is trained to predict the overlap between the target object and an estimated
bounding box. High-level knowledge is incorporated into the target estimation
through extensive offline learning.
Siamese networks [5,23,30,32,22] have received much attention due to their
end-to-endtrainingcapabilitiesandhighefficiency.However,Siameseapproaches
arelimitedintheirinabilitytoincorporateinformationfromthebackgroundre-
gion or previous tracked frames into the model prediction. To deal with this
issue, DiMP [6] takes inspiration from the discriminative online learning proce-
dures [9,10,26]. DiMP tracking architecture consists of two branches: a target
classification branch for distinguishing the target from the background, and a
bounding box estimation branch for predicting an accurate target box. The tar-
getclassificationbranchisderivedfromtwomainprinciples:(i)adiscriminative
learninglosspromotingrobustnessinthelearnedtargetmodeland(ii)apower-
ful optimization strategy ensuring rapid convergence. Bounding box estimation
branch is utilized from the overlap maximization based architecture introduced
in ATOM [9].
Most tacking models rely on estimating a state-dependent confidence score,
but this value lacks a clear probabilistic interpretation, complicating its use.
Therefore, in PrDiMP [11], a probabilistic regression formulation is proposed,
and it is applied to track the target. PrDiMP network predicts the conditional
probability density of the target state given an input image. Their formulation
helpsthemodeltoberobustfrominaccurateannotationsandambiguitiesinthe
task.
2.2 Long-term object tracking
The target may disappear in the long-term tracking setting, so a re-detection
module is essential. In addition, a robust online update method capable of ac-
commodatingchangesinthevisualappearanceofthetargetdramaticallyaffects
performance. Therefore, we shortly introduce how long-term