In total, how many work days are there in the Spring 2025 semester?
In total, how many Mondays are there in the Spring 2025 semester?
How many Wednesdays are there in the Mini-4 section of the Spring 2025 semester?
When is the Spring 2025 semester add, audit & tuition adjustment drop deadline?
Will students dropping all of their courses on 2025-01-26 receive a tuition adjustment for the Spring 2025 semester?
Will students dropping a course while remaining enrolled (in at least one course-section) on 2025-01-29 receive a tuition adjustment for the Spring 2025 semester?
When does the Mini-3 Exams take place in the Spring 2025 semester?
When does the Spring Carnival take place for the Spring 2025 semester?
When are the Final Grades Due for the Spring 2025 semester?
What is the common department number for the Drama department?
What is the course number of Distributed Systems in the Spring 2024 semester?
Who is teaching 15440 in the Spring 2024 semester?
How many units is 15440 worth in the Spring 2024 semester?
On which days of the week does 15440 meet in the Spring 2024 semester?
On what time of day does the 15440 lecture section begin in the Spring 2024 semester?
On what time of day does the 15440 section A end in the Spring 2024 semester?
In which room does the 15440 lecture section meet in?
How many lecture sections does 15440 have in the Spring 2024 semester?
How many recitation sections does 15440 have in the Spring 2024 semester?
When does the Inventing Shakespeare: Text, Technology and The Four Folios begin on April 11?
If I'm not a CMU student, can I attend Livestream of Then & Now Presentation?
If I'm not a CMU student, can I attend Preliminary Sweepstakes Races?
On which day does Statistics & Data Science Alumni & Department Lunch take place?
Do I need an invitation to participate in Heinz Alumni Association Awards?
On which day does Robing and procession for graduates take place?
Where does Naval ROTC Commissioning take place?
Who should I contact to know more about Naval ROTC Commissioning?
Which address should I email to for more information about Naval ROTC Commissioning?
On which day does the diploma ceremony for biomedical engineering majors take place?
On what time of day does the diploma ceremony for biomedical engineering majors begin?
Where does the diploma ceremony for biomedical engineering majors take place?
Who should I contact to know more about the diploma ceremony for biomedical engineering majors?
Which address should I email to for more information about the diploma ceremony for biomedical engineering majors?
Which number should I call to for more information about the diploma ceremony for biomedical engineering majors?
When was the first doctorate degree awarded?
Carnegie Tech merged with what school in 1967?
When does Carnegie Mellon celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Carnegie Tech-Mellon Institute merger?
What is a top priority for the buggy team?
Which team was the first all women’s team in buggy history?
Where will the Buggy showcase be held?
How many faculty does CMU have?
What percentage of the total undergraduate student body are international students?
Who creates the first smile in an email?
Are there auditions for the Kiltie band?
When does the Kiltie concert band play a holiday concert?
Do members need to memorize music?
When was the official Scotty costume unveiled?
What does the Scottish terrier breed is known for?
Which year was Scotty officially accepted as CMU's first mascot?
What is David Garlan’s email address?
What is Martial Hebert's phone number, according to the MSAII handbook?
For the MSAII degree, do you need to do a capstone project? Yes/no
When does an MSAII student need to complete an internship?
What is the maximum number of units for a course to be counted as elective according to the MSAII handbook?
Who is the Academic Program Manager for MCDS?
According to the MCDS handbook, where is the main office?
Does MCDS have a teaching requirement?
How many units for an MCDS student must take to maintain full-time status?
Where can MCDS students get their ID Cards?
How many tracks does the MCDS department provide?
Do MLT students need permission to be Teaching Assistants?
To complete the course requirements for the Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies degree, how many units does a student need to pass?
What is the target duration of LTI Ph.D.?
Who assigns the Ph.D. students’ office?
Where was "Pragmatic Inference with a CLIP Listener for Contrastive Captioning" presented?
Who is the first author of "SantaCoder: don't reach for the stars!"?
What is the venue for "Grounding Language Models to Images for Multimodal Inputs and Outputs"?
Who is a common author for "Generating Images with Multimodal Language Models" and "WebArena: A Realistic Web Environment for Building Autonomous Agents"?
How many authors does "SantaCoder: don't reach for the stars!" list?
What venue is "Generating Images with Multimodal Language Models" associated with?
Who is the first listed author for "Grounding Language Models to Images for Multimodal Inputs and Outputs"?
What is the main evaluation benchmark in "SantaCoder: don't reach for the stars!"?
How many Assistant Professors are listed?
Who is the LTI Director?
How many Professors Emeritus are mentioned?
What is Ralf Brown's job title?
Who holds the title of Associate Dean for PhD Programs?
What is the focus of WavLabLM?
How does WavLabLM handle language imbalance in data?
How many languages are covered by WavLabLM?
What is the total amount of pre-training data for WavLabLM?
Which model did WavLabLM outperform in several tasks?
What is the unique feature of CV-HuBERT?
How many languages does CV-HuBERT process?
What was the size of the pre-training data for CV-HuBERT?
Which model maintains up to 94% of XLS-R's performance with only 3% of the data?
How does WavLabLM's performance compare to XLS-R 128 on ML-SUPERB?
What are the dimensions used for the multi-resolution approach in SSL?
How many GPU hours did CV-HuBERT models require for training?
What does the WavLabLM framework aim to improve?
What model is investigated for its emergent abilities in the paper?
What are the three tasks selected to adapt the model using prompt engineering?
Which vision-and-language model is used for visually-conditioned prompting in AVSR?
What dataset contains Mandarin-English code-switched spontaneous conversational speech?
On which task does the Whisper model use a language token in the prompt to detect language for code-switching?
What is Whisper's ability to perform without any training on that specific task?
Which two languages are involved in the code-switched datasets used in the paper?