Articles
Reports of the AAAI
2011 Fall Symposia
Sam Blisard, Ted Carmichael, Li Ding, Tim Finin, Wende Frost,
Arthur Graesser, Mirsad Hadzikadic, Lalana Kagal, Geert-Jan M. Kruijff,
Pat Langley, James Lester, Deborah L. McGuinness, Jack Mostow,
Panagiotis Papadakis, Fiora Pirri, Rashmi Prasad,
Svetlana Stoyanchev, Pradeep Varakantham
(cid:2) The Association for the Advancement of Advances in Cognitive Systems
Artificial Intelligence was pleased to present the
2011 Fall Symposium Series, held Friday The goal of the AAAI Fall Symposium on Advances in Cognitive
through Sunday, November 4–6, at the Westin Systems was to bring together researchers who are interested in
Arlington Gateway in Arlington, Virginia. The developing intelligent systems that demonstrate the full range
titles of the seven symposia are as follows: (1)
of human cognitive abilities and to report progress on this
Advances in Cognitive Systems; (2) Building
daunting task.
Representations of Common Ground with Intel-
The original aims of artificial intelligence, when it was
ligent Agents; (3) Complex Adaptive Systems:
Energy, Information, and Intelligence; (4) Mul- launched in the late 1950s, were to explain intelligence in com-
tiagent Coordination under Uncertainty; (5) putational terms and to reproduce the entire range of human
Open Government Knowledge: AI Opportunities cognitive abilities in computational artifacts. Although the field
and Challenges; (6) Question Generation; and has seen impressive advances in the last few decades, many
(7) Robot-Human Teamwork in Dynamic
researchers have, in the process, forgotten or abandoned these
Adverse Environments. The highlights of each
important goals. The purpose of the Fall Symposium on
symposium are presented in this report.
Advances in Cognitive Systems was to bring together scientists
who remained committed to AI’s original vision. The meeting
received 50 paper submissions and it was attended by more than
75 participants, suggesting that there remains substantial inter-
est in this view on the discipline.
Research in cognitive systems, as reflected by the contributors
to the meeting, differs from what has become mainstream AI in
five basic ways. First, it retains a concern with high-level aspects
of cognition, such as the ability to engage in multistep infer-
Copyright © 2012, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. All rights reserved. ISSN 0738-4602 SPRING 2012 71
Articles
The Advances in Cognitive Systems AAAI Fall Symposium, held at the Westin Hotel in Arlington, Virginia.
Photograph courtesy Will Bridewell.
ence, understand the meaning of natural language, that reflected a number of distinct but connected
generate novel plans that achieve goals, and even themes. Some presentations dealt with flexible
reason about one’s own reasoning. Second, cogni- conceptual-inference mechanisms for using com-
tive systems research emphasizes the role of struc- monsense knowledge that move beyond tradition-
tured representations in intelligence and recog- al deductive approaches. A second theme dealt
nizes that both computers and humans are general with deep language processing, at both the sen-
symbol manipulators, not just numeric processors. tence and dialogue levels, that combines linguistic
Third, it approaches intelligence from a systems and domain knowledge to produce genuine repre-
perspective, examining how different abilities fit sentations of meaning. A related topic was reason-
together rather than focusing on component algo- ing about the mental states of other agents, an abil-
rithms. Fourth, the field draws ideas and inspira- ity essential to dialogue and joint activity, with a
tion from findings about human cognition, both number of frameworks relying on partitioned
for candidate mechanisms and for challenging memories (divided into “worlds” or “contexts”) to
problems to drive research. Finally, it adopts flexi- keep mental models distinct. A fourth emphasis
ble views on evaluation, welcoming papers that involved mechanisms for acquiring structural
demonstrate new functionality, present novel knowledge from experience and instruction, most
approaches to established problems, analyze chal- relying on some form of explanation to generate
lenging cognitive tasks, and report on architectures candidate structures. Together, these themes clari-
for integrated intelligence. Together, these charac- fy the distinctive character of research on cognitive
teristics identify cognitive systems as a separate systems and its concern with producing human-
paradigm that remains committed to the original like computational artifacts.
vision for artificial intelligence. Open discussions during the meeting focused on
The symposium included 22 talks and 23 posters three important issues. One concerned criteria for
72 AI MAGAZINE
Articles
evaluating research progress, and for publishing pants is termed common ground, and is made up of
papers, on cognitive systems. There was general all of the background and shared information that
agreement that existing conferences are not sup- will lead to the eventual success of the communi-
portive of work in the paradigm, and that the com- cation. Some measure of common ground is used
munity should find ways to broaden existing ven- in most, if not all, successful interactions between
ues or establish new ones so that submissions will human actors. For humans to have a convincing
receive appropriate evaluation. Another discussion and beneficial experience interacting with intelli-
topic dealt with challenges that might drive gent agents, the agents must have mechanisms
research in the area. Proposals included flexible that support the fundamentals of common
and scalable inference mechanisms, more natural ground. The goal of this symposium was to bring
approaches to acquiring knowledge over extended together researchers from diverse fields to examine
periods, techniques that interface general-purpose the representations and models currently in use
reasoning with specialized methods for spatial and that will one day enable complete common
visual processing, and motivational mechanisms ground interaction with intelligent agents.
that influence reasoning and goal generation. The participants of this symposium came from a
Finally, participants discussed resources that would variety of AI fields such as robotics, human-com-
support the cognitive systems community, with puter interaction, linguistics, and cognitive mod-
the main candidate being a wiki that incorporates eling. A major theme of the talks was the need to
pointers to software, course material, challenge
clarify other agents’ beliefs and solidify joint
problems, and data sets.
knowledge by asking questions when a situation is
There was general consensus among participants
ambiguous or unclear. Strategies for doing this and
that the symposium served a genuine need within
examples of when this might occur were given by
the AI community and that additional meetings
Alex Djalali (Stanford University) and Matthew
were desirable. There was also a sense that,
Marge (Carnegie Mellon University). Another
although the cognitive systems paradigm adopts
major theme of the symposium was the implicit
the original aims of AI, its modern incarnation is
need to build common ground for recognizing and
relatively new and, to ensure its success as a scien-
creating deception. This was demonstrated both in
tific discipline, we must clarify its distinctive char-
cases where the deception is caused by a human, as
acteristics, foster a community of like-minded
in a talk presented by Will Bridewell (Stanford Cen-
researchers, identify research challenges and make
ter for Biomedical Informatics Research) during the
progress on them, establish venues for publishing
joint session with the Advances in Cognitive Sys-
results, and train promising new scientists. The
tems symposium, and in cases when the deception
symposium was only one step on the road toward
is caused by an intelligent agent, as demonstrated
the audacious goal of computational systems with
in a paper by Micah Clark (NASA Jet Propulsion
the same broad forms of intelligence as humans,
Laboratory).
and this task will keep the community occupied
Other topics touched upon by the symposium
for years to come.
participants included social authority in dialogue,
Pat Langley served as the chair of the meeting.
using outcome matrices for phrase selection, cog-
Paul Bello (Office of Naval Research), Nicholas Cas-
nitive modeling of common ground, and model-
simatis (Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute), Kenneth
ing actual and nonactual states of modal verbs.
Forbus (Northwestern University), John Laird (Uni-
The symposium included two invited talks. The
versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor), and Sergei Niren-
first talk was given by Geert-Jan Kruijff (German
burg (University of Maryland, Baltimore County)
Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI))
were coorganizers of the symposium. Papers from
and was titled “Common Ground in Human-
the meeting appear in Technical Report FS-11-01
Robot Teams in Urban Search and Rescue.” The
from AAAI Press.
second talk was given by James Allen (University of
Rochester/Institute for Human and Machine Cog-
Building Representations
nition) and was titled “What Are We Doing? A Key
of Common Ground Aspect of Common Ground.” A joint session was
held with the Advances in Cognitive Systems sym-
with Intelligent Agents
posium, where topics that were of interest to both
The goal of this symposium was to explore meth- symposia were discussed.
ods of explicity or implicity using aspects of com- The symposium was successful in generating
mon ground to interact with intelligent agents. interest among the participants in building the
Much of the success of natural language interac- common ground community, which we hope to
tion is caused by the participants’ mutual under- expand and preserve by future events and addi-
standing of the circumstances surrounding the tional channels of communication.
communication. The mutual understanding of the Sam Blisard and Wende Frost served as cochairs
perceived context and joint beliefs of the partici- of this symposium. The papers of the symposium
SPRING 2012 73
Articles
were published as AAAI Press Technical Report FS- Exhibit emergent properties and self-organization;
11-02. and (3) Produce nonlinear dynamic behavior.
Advances in modeling and computing technology
have led to a deeper understanding of complex sys-
Complex Adaptive Systems:
tems in many areas, and have raised the possibili-
Energy, Information,
ty that similar fundamental principles may be at
and Intelligence work across these systems, even though the under-
lying principles may manifest themselves differ-
The goal of the Complex Adaptive Systems sym- ently.
posium was to bring together researchers and stu- In attendance were approximately 45
dents who represent a wide diversity of disciplines, researchers from disciplines as diverse as computer
and use the common tools of complex adaptive science, philosophy, economics, political science,
systems to investigate the next set of fundamental
biology, public policy, cognitive science, literature,
processes in these systems from the perspective of
and ecology. Some 20 papers were presented that
multiple domains.
explored these themes from an equally diverse set
All complex systems require energy to develop
of viewpoints. Among the highlights were Kiran
and persist, but “energy” as a concept in complex
Lakkaraju (Sandia National Laboratory), who pre-
adaptive systems (CAS) is often more than merely
sented on the diffusion of attitudes in a communi-
physical energy; it is anything that drives and con-
ty; Patrick Grim (Stony Brook University), who pre-
strains the system. Agents must cooperate or com-
sented an analysis of various network structures
pete for limited resources, whether these resources
and how these affect the spread of germs, genes,
are energy, power, food, money, or some other
and memes; and Aaron Bramson, who talked about
physical or metaphorical limitation. The success or
methods for testing for emergence (University of
failure of various agent strategies depends on how
Michigan). Erika Frydenlund and David Earnest
effective the agents are in acquiring and utilizing
(Old Dominion University) presented two agent-
these resources.
based models: one on community information
In this quest for resources, the agent-level imple-
sharing for improving public safety; and another
mentation of various strategies is enabled by the
that explored the resiliency of the international air
collection of local information by these agents. But
transportation network. John Seymour and Joseph
“information,” too, encompasses more than just
Tuzo of the University of Maryland, Baltimore
words, ideas, or memes; it also includes many
County (and their advisor Marie desJardins) dis-
forms of nonverbal or nonhuman communication
cussed two separate models that showed emergent
systems. We broadly define communication to be
features from the interactions of simple agents:
any information passing to an agent, from other
one in the context of lane-changing strategies for
agents or from its environment. Such flows of
highway driving, and the second using an ant
information may, in their own right, be the focus
colony optimization algorithm. Finally, Russ
of CAS modeling, such as in models of political dis-
Abbott (California State University) presented
sent, social contagion, or the dynamical flows
research that compares and contrasts supply-dri-
across networks.
ven ecological systems to demand-driven econom-
Thus, agents in a CAS acquire information from
ic systems.
a limited communication radius, interpret what
In addition to paper presentations, we held a
they see, hear, feel, or otherwise sense, and then
act based on this knowledge. These actions and participatory panel discussion that highlighted the
reactions spread through a CAS in patterns of cor- work from an NEH-sponsored summer institute on
related feedbacks. This process leads to the emer- simulation for the humanities. Humanists are not
gence of system-level properties, including global usually found at symposia hosted by a computer
patterns of intelligence that no individual agent science organization, and so this was particularly
within that system possesses. Such system-level useful in exemplifying how CAS tools and meth-
intelligence can arise even from simple agents, or ods can be used in a wide variety of domains. This
agents with only a few abilities or limited knowl- panel was chaired by Marvin Croy (University of
edge. Therefore, these agents cannot be studied in North Carolina, Charlotte) and featured talks from
isolation; understanding these complex systems Gillian Crozier (Laurentian University), Graham
requires understanding how the agents behave and Sack (Columbia University), and Stephen Crowley
interact with other agents, and in the context of (Boise State University).
the emergent, system-level properties. As with previous years, we were fortunate to
Complex adaptive systems have proven to be a have two distinguished keynote speakers. Carl
powerful tool for exploring these and other related Simon is the founding director of the prestigious
phenomena. We characterize a general CAS model Center for the Study of Complex Systems at the
as having a large number of self-similar agents University of Michigan. Simon gave us his per-
that: (1) Utilize one or more levels of feedback; (2) spective on the importance of solving practical
74 AI MAGAZINE
Articles
problems. We also hosted Sean O’Brien, who is an gapore for better performance (revenue for drivers
executive vice-president and senior scientist at and higher taxi availability for customers); (3)
SAE, Inc., and a former program director from guiding customers in a theme park for reduced
DARPA. O’Brien discussed various projects and wait times at attractions; (4) building ad hoc robot
methodologies that affect our armed forces, espe- teams to play soccer; (5) coordinating robot boats
cially in the context of human, social, cultural, and to observe interesting phenomenon (observing
behavioral (HSCB) dimensions. water temperature and floods to save fish in Philip-
Thus, our efforts this year can be summarized as pines); (6) coordinating large-scale logistics servic-
strengthening the community of researchers from es during disaster relief.
across a wide range of fields, and using the three There were many exciting and interesting results
fundamental properties of CAS—energy, informa- presented during the talks on latest research. First,
tion, and intelligence—as a bridge connecting
in certain large-scale multiagent coordination
these disciplines. Many of this year’s attendees
problems, the quality of solution strategies
were also present at our first two AAAI CAS sym-
becomes closer to optimal as the number of agents
posia, held in 2009 and 2010. Of particular note is
increases (or the impact of an individual agent on
the emphasis we place on student participation.
the overall solution is reduced). This was illustrat-
Approximately half of the attendees were graduate
ed on route guidance problems faced by cars trav-
students or undergrads, including multiple mem-
elling through a city and for customers at a theme
bers of the organizing committee.
park. Second, selective communication for multia-
Mirsad Hadzikadic and Ted Carmichael served as
gent coordination can sometimes lead to a fall in
the cochairs for this symposium, and the papers
coordination performance. Third, multiagent coor-
presented here can be found in AAAI Press Techni-
dination in certain domains with uncertainty can
cal Report FSS-11-03.
be improved by insights from nature. For instance,
robots coordinating for museum surveillance were
Multiagent Coordination
able to perform better with ant-colony optimiza-
under Uncertainty tion techniques than with standard coordination
techniques. Fourth, it is possible to add a new
The goal of the Multiagent Coordination under robot to a robot soccer team and perform well
Uncertainty symposium was to understand the lat- without any precoordination between the new
est research in multiagent coordination, new appli- robot and the team. Fifth, in certain coordination
cation domains, and some of the interesting future
problems (particularly ones where there is conges-
directions.
tion over resources with uncertainty), game-theo-
In domains ranging from Earth-observing sensor
retic solution concepts provide better social wel-
webs to collaborating ambulances or fire fighters
fare than locally rational agents (greedy myopic
during disaster rescue or software personal assis-
behavior).
tants scheduling meetings to “coordinators” assist-
There was also considerable discussion on future
ing in executing military missions or exploration
research directions. An interesting direction raised
of underwater terrains using autonomous under-
during talks was about building ad hoc teams of
water vehicles to handling large-scale humanitari-
agents in generic problem domains. As part of this,
an logistics, multiple intelligent agents need to
new agents can join teams without any coordina-
coordinate in the presence of uncertainty to
tion with the team. Reasoning about coordination
achieve team goals. The goal of the symposium
(and communication for coordination) has typi-
was to understand some of the latest application
cally been performed either completely offline or
domains, look at interesting research problems in
completely online. Pursuing a hybrid mechanism
this area, and investigate future research direc-
seems to be a direction for the future. Existing
tions.
models for coordination under uncertainty (DEC-
The symposium was organized as a set of invit-
POMDPs, stochastic games, DCOPs) assume either
ed talks by pioneers of the area mixed with talks
from researchers who have been working in this completely cooperative or adversarial settings and
area. There were also two discussion sessions where it was agreed that there was need for models that
topics raised in the talks and other interesting considered partially adversarial and partially coop-
research questions were discussed. Typically, erative problems. Finally, considering the robust
research in the area has focused on generic models optimization (risk aware) criterion to reason about
such as DEC-(PO)MDP, DCOP, stochastic games. A uncertainty seems to be a natural progression from
key theme that was observed across most of the expected value optimization.
talks was that the research was based on interesting Pradeep Varakantham (author of this report),
real-world problems: (1) coordinating security William Yeoh, Paul Scerri, and Janusz Marecki
forces to thwart adversaries in airports, country served as cochairs of this symposium. There were
borders; (2) decision support for taxi drivers in Sin- no papers published from this symposium.
SPRING 2012 75
Articles
Open Government Knowledge: AI raised by our government practitioners is the lack
of a global, scalable data catalog, which is required
Opportunities and Challenges
to overview the availability of government data
The AAAI Fall Symposium on Open Government and to promote the progressive quality refinement
Knowledge focused on issues related to publishing of the data. It was also noted that there are
government data as reusable knowledge on the immense quantities of government data that
web. More than 40 countries around the world are remain in nondigital form. Two important scien-
working on publishing government data as open tific challenges involved with opening reusable
and reusable world knowledge to improve trans- and linked government data were identified: (1)
parency in government and to accumulate valu- management of social-economic issues such as pri-
able social information. The Open Government vacy, licenses, access control, risk models, and
Knowledge symposium brought together a diverse provenance; and (2) management of computation-
community to explore the governmental, business, al issues such as uncertainty, correlated metadata
scientific, and academic challenges and opportu- and context, special treatment on the temporal-
nities in the process of publishing, linking, mash- spatial dimension, persistence, and portability.
ing-up, and leveraging public government data. In summary, open government data has a
The symposium featured a wide range of distin- unique impact on artificial intelligence research.
guished speakers from government, industry, and Unlike conventional text web pages, open govern-
academia. Opening keynote talks were given by ment data is released and reused in a more struc-
Jeanne Holm on driving global innovation tural way, demanding effective AI solutions to
through linked data and by Abdul Shaikh of enable and enhance cross-domain data integration
NIH/NCI on crowd sourcing of the research enter- and web-scale data mash-ups. The huge amount of
prise. Invited talks were presented by Debbie government data available from different coun-
Brodt-Giles of NERL on open energy information tries, states, and cities further offers a realistic
and by Curt Tilmes of NASA on scientific data and opportunity for evolving computationally and
provenance. David Wood of 3roundstones gave a socially scalable AI solutions.
two-hour tutorial on linked data and associated Li Ding, Tim Finin, Lalana Kagal, and Deborah
semantic web standards providing the participants L. McGuiness served as cochairs of this sympo-
with a common understanding of the technology sium. There were no papers published from this
and context. Government practitioners from the symposium.
United States, Canada, and Brazil reported on their
progress and challenges in publishing open data of Question Generation
various kinds including health, energy, communi-
ty, and education, as well as in preserving the data Asking questions is a fundamental cognitive
and its provenance. Speakers from Google (Sree process that underlies higher-level cognitive abili-
Balakrishnan) and Microsoft (Lewis Shepherd) dis- ties such as comprehension and reasoning. Ulti-
cussed two important aspects of open government mately, question generation (QG) allows humans,
knowledge: web-scale structured data integration and in many cases artificial intelligence systems, to
and semantic processing to turn data into high- understand their environment and each other.
quality knowledge. Several panels addressed Research on question generation has a long histo-
advanced topics relating to the role of linked data ry in artificial intelligence, psychology, education,
in an open government knowledge ecosystem, and natural language processing. One thread of
possible “killer apps,” and key technologies for research has been theoretical, with attempts to
growing business opportunities around open gov- understand and specify the triggers and mecha-
ernment knowledge. nisms underlying question generation. The other
The symposium generated much discussion thread of research has focused on automated ques-
among the participants and led to the collabora- tion generation, which has far-reaching applica-
tive development of a road map for linked open tions in intelligent technologies, such as dialogue
government data. systems, question-answering systems, web search,
During the discussion, a principle in processing intelligent tutoring systems, automated assessment
open government data was agreed upon: instead of systems, inquiry-based environments, adaptive
expecting that all government data be at the high- intelligent agents and game-based learning envi-
est level of quality, linked data technology can be ronments.
used to enable incremental data publishing and The 2011 AAAI Symposium on Question Gener-
refinement. Depending on the scale of govern- ation followed three previous workshops and a
ment organization and the data, the organization shared task and evaluation campaign. The goal of
might think it is sufficient to get raw data online or the 2011 symposium was to foster theoretical and
may choose to require that all data be directly pub- applied research on computational and cognitive
lished as linked data. Another important issue aspects of question generation, thus bringing
76 AI MAGAZINE
Articles
together participants from diverse disciplines challenges. Participants split into three groups and
including natural language processing, artificial engaged in a creative discussion on the topics of
intelligence, linguistics, psychology, and educa- question-generation evaluation. The organizers
tion, and to create a forum for discussing and plan- defined two tasks for the participants to discuss.
ning the future of question generation shared task Following the discussions, each group presented
and evaluation challenges. their ideas and everyone voted on their favorite
The first part of the symposium featured proposal.
paper and poster presentations, which represented In the first task, participants had to design an
three major themes. The first theme was human or enhanced evaluation criteria and process for ques-
cognitive perspectives on question generation, tion generation. Each group had access to the data
under which papers explored the importance of set and were able to look at the outputs of the sys-
using human models and social interaction for tems participating in the first campaign. The
promoting learning, the relationship between groups came up with creative ideas for using
curiosity and question asking, and the efficacy of crowd-sourcing tools (Mechanical Turk) and
prompts for self-questioning in learning. An invit- enhancing the task to appeal to more participants.
ed talk by Patricia Alexander explored the implica- In the second task, participants were asked to
tions of asking questions when prompted or direct- brainstorm a different method of evaluation: task-
ed to do so by others versus when learners’ based evaluation. Task-based evaluation measures
questions arise spontaneously or intentionally. The the impact of an NLG system on how well a user
second theme focused on various applications of can perform a task while assisted by the system.
question generation, including generation of mul- Task-based evaluation may be an online game,
tiple choice exams using limited human-judged such as navigation in a three-dimensional envi-
data resources, generation of questions based on ronment assisted by generation of directions, or a
numerical entities, generation of mathematical task that participants perform in a lab, such as card
word problems from ontologies in unrestricted matching. Task-based evaluation avoids subjective
domains, generation of cloze questions based on judgments and, instead, evaluates NLG systems
definitions, generation of questions to promote indirectly, by analyzing user performance.
creativity, generation of questions in situated The participants came up with creative new ideas
human-robot interaction, and using automatically for task-based evaluation. One of the ideas involved
generated question-answer pairs for augmenting an online game where players engage in a Turing
test–like task, determining whether a question is
conversational characters. An invited talk by Jack
generated by a human or by a computer. Correct-
Mostow reviewed his team’s research on automat-
ness of their judgments and quickness of their
ically generating and administering questions in
responses allows evaluation to compare the quality
Project LISTEN’s Reading Tutor. The final theme
of questions generated by different systems. This
focused on technical approaches for question gen-
type of game may be implemented on popular web-
eration, where research included the generation of
sites such as Facebook that attract many players
more specific questions, ranking of over-generated
and allow for collection of large data sets.
questions, and exploring the feasibility of using
Rashmi Prasad, Svetlana Stoyanchev, Jack
discourse parsing for question-generation tasks.
Mostow, Arthur Graesser, and James Lester served
The second half of the symposium featured
as cochairs of the symposium. The papers of the
break-out working group discussion sessions that
symposium were published as AAAI Press Techni-
addressed evaluation of question generation,
cal Report FS-11-04.
specifically through question generation shared
task challenge and evaluation campaigns. Evaluat-
ing the quality of automatically generated natural Robot-Human Teamwork in
language text is notoriously difficult. As natural
Dynamic Adverse Environments
language is rich and diverse, a correctly generated
sentence (in this case, a question) may have multi- Robots are gradually making their way into differ-
ple forms. This makes automatic evaluation, such ent aspects of our lives. We find them at home, on
as comparing system outputs against a gold-stan- the factory floor, and, more and more, they are also
dard key set, difficult. Evaluating natural language performing missions in complex outdoor environ-
generation (NLG) output often involves human ments.
judgments of the output in terms of grammatical At the Robot-Human Teamwork in Dynamic
and semantic correctness, relevance, or appropri- Adverse Environments symposium we discussed
ateness. issues in human-robot teamwork, set in environ-
The goal of the discussion sessions was to pre- ments that are dynamic and adverse. Typical
pare for the next evaluation challenge. Vasile Rus examples here include urban search and rescue
gave a kickoff invited talk on the first question- (USAR), or security missions. This is a timely topic:
generation campaign and future opportunities and This is already happening. Humans are taking
SPRING 2012 77
Articles
robots on such missions, using them in situations Sam Blisard is a research scientist in the Interactive Sys-
that are too dangerous for people to (immediately) tems section at the Naval Research Laboratory in Wash-
enter. Where this is not happening yet, it is very ington, D.C.
likely to be happening soon. Ted Carmichaelis an assistant research professor in the
Human-robot teaming in such environments is department of Software and Information Systems at the
much more than just a technical issue. It is “peo- University of North Carolina at Charlotte, and faculty
ple plus robots.” This is a complex sociotechnical member in the Complex Systems Institute.
system in which humans and robots are trying to
Li Dingis a staff engineer at Qualcomm Inc.
work together under very difficult circumstances.
They are performing under heavy physical and Tim Fininis a professor in the Department of Computer
Science and Electrical Engineering at the University of
mental stress, and we know that in such extreme
Maryland, Baltimore County.
situations, under such extreme conditions, human
characteristics, behaviors, emotions are driven to Wende Frostis a research scientist in the Interactive Sys-
extremes. People change in how they behave, act, tems section at the Naval Research Laboratory in Wash-
what they pay attention to, and how they interact. ington, D.C., and a Ph.D. candidate in linguistics at Ari-
zona State University.
If we use robots in such situations, will we actual-
ly make things better? Or will we make things Arthur Graesseris a professor in the Department of Psy-
worse? Can we make robots to assist humans to do chology, an adjunct professor in computer science, and
better, to handle such situations better? codirector of the Institute of Intelligent Systems, Univer-
Looking at these problems from the viewpoint sity of Memphis.
of the user (first responder, police officer, soldier, Mirsad Hadzikadicis a professor in the department of
and so on) the symposium raised from anywhere Software and Information Systems at the University of
between practical and fundamental questions. North Carolina at Charlotte, and the founding director of
What is a team? What is a human-robot team? UNC Charlotte’s Complex Systems Institute.
What is teamwork in such a context? When we
Lalana Kagalis a research scientist in the Computer Sci-
consider mixed-initiative settings, do we actually ence and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the Massa-
want robots to take the lead? What makes for good chusetts Institute of Technology.
teamwork, and what would be bad teamwork?
Geert-Jan M. Kruijff is a senior researcher at the Lan-
What does it mean to share situation awareness,
guage Technology Lab, German Research Center for Arti-
when humans and robots are typically geographi-
ficial Intelligence (DFKI GmbH).
cally distributed, and each and every one has his or
her own ways of looking at a situation, experienc- Pat Langleyis a professor of computer science and engi-
neering at Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona,
ing it subjectively? Also, amid all the hows and
and director of the Institute for the Study of Learning and
coulds, should we?
Expertise in Palo Alto, California.
The take-home messages from the various pre-
sentations, and invited talks by Ron Arkin, Jeffrey James Lesteris a professor in the Department of Com-
Bradshaw, and Satoshi Tadokoro, were essentially puter Science, North Carolina State University.
that it’s about working together. There is an inher- Deborah L. McGuinnessa professor of computer science
ent interdependency between humans and robots, and cognitive science at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
and this requires much more than autonomy (even
Jack Mostow is a research professor in the School of
when we consider autonomy to be multidimen-
Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University.
sional). It’s about the social dynamics of actors,
roles, performing particular tasks. It’s about situa- Panagiotis Papadakisis a postdoctoral researcher at the
tion awareness specific to interactions between ALCOR lab (Auto Agent Laboratory for Cognitive Robot-
ics), Department of Informatics and Systems, University
roles, in specific task contexts; and above all, it is
of Sapienza, Rome.
about making robots acceptable. As Satoshi
Tadokoro aptly put it, it’s perhaps better to turn AI Fiora Pirriis a professor of computer science and head of
from artificial intelligence into acceptable intelli- the ALCOR lab, Department of Informatics and Systems,
gence: robot intelligence that is clear, predictable, University of Sapienza, Rome.
and acceptable in a given team context. Only then Rashmi Prasad is an assistant professor at the Depart-
we may be able to succeed in turning robots into ment of Health Informatics and Administration, Univer-
real team players. sity of Wisconsin–Milwaukee.
Geert-Jan M. Kruijff, Panos Papadakis and Fiora
Svetlana Stoyanchevis a postdoctoral research scientist
Pirri served as cochairs of this symposium. Addi-
at Columbia University.
tional support for this symposium came from the
Natural Human-Robot Collaboration in Dynamic Pradeep Varakantham is an assistant professor at the
School of Information Systems, Singapore Management
Environments project. The papers of the sympo-
University.
sium were published as AAAI Press Technical
Report FS-11-05.
78 AI MAGAZINE
