Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
RESEARCH Open Access
Predicting gene ontology annotations of orphan
GWAS genes using protein-protein interactions
Usha Kuppuswamy1† , Seshan Ananthasubramanian1,2† , Yanli Wang1, Narayanaswamy Balakrishnan3
and Madhavi K Ganapathiraju1,2*
Abstract
Background: The number ofgenome-wide association studies (GWAS) has increased rapidly inthe past couple of
years, resulting in the identification of genes associated with different diseases. The next step in translating these
findings into biomedically useful informationis to find out themechanism ofthe action of thesegenes. However,
GWASstudiesoftenimplicate genes whose functions are currently unknown; for example, MYEOV, ANKLE1,
TMEM45B and ORAOV1 are found to be associated withbreast cancer, buttheir molecular function is unknown.
Results: We carried out Bayesian inference of Gene Ontology (GO) term annotations ofgenes by employing the
directed acyclic graph structure ofGO and the network of protein-protein interactions (PPIs). The approach is
designed based onthe fact that two proteins that interact biophysically would be inphysicalproximityof each
other, would possess complementary molecular function, and play role inrelated biological processes. Predicted
GO terms were ranked according to their relative association scores and the approach was evaluated quantitatively
byplottingtheprecision versus recall values and F-scores (theharmonic meanof precision and recall) versus
varying thresholds. Precisions of ~58% and~40% for localizationand functions respectively of proteins were
determined at a threshold of ~30 (top 30 GO terms in theranked list). Comparison with function prediction based
onsemantic similarity among nodes inan ontology and incorporation of those similarities in a k-nearest neighbor
classifier confirmed that our resultscompared favorably.
Conclusions: This approach was applied to predict thecellular component and molecular function GO terms ofall
human proteins thathave interacting partnerspossessing at least one known GO annotation. The list of predictions
is available athttp://severus.dbmi.pitt.edu/engo/GOPRED.html. We present the algorithm, evaluations and the
results of the computational predictions, especially for genes identified inGWAS studies to be associated with
diseases, which are of translationalinterest.
Keywords: GWAS, GO annotation,Prediction, Function, Protein-proteininteractions, Precision-recallcurves
Background small, and this necessitates the identification of common
Analysisofgenetic variations withinapopulationcanre- genetic variants at multiple loci and their statistical
veal the genetic predisposition of an individual’s suscep- interactions [1], which is challenging [2]. With the deve-
tibility to various diseases. Unlike monogenic Mendelian lopment of DNA array technology, a powerful metho4-
diseases, multifactorial diseases result from combina- dology has emerged for systematically carrying out
tions of variations in several genes. Therefore, the effect genome wide association studies (GWAS). These studies
of individual genes on disease-susceptibility is negligibly are capable of determining the role of common genetic
variants in diseases without the need for establishing the
identities of the causal relations [3]. GWAS studies pro-
*Correspondence:madhavi@pitt.edu
†Equalcontributors vide a mapping between genetic factors and diseases by
1DepartmentofBiomedicalInformaticsandIntelligentSystemsProgram, drawing comparisons in the genotype of variants be-
UniversityofPittsburgh,Pittsburgh,PA15213,USA tween disease cases and controls. These studies are un-
2IntelligentSystemsProgram,UniversityofPittsburgh,5607BaumBoulevard,
biased by current scientific knowledge about individual
Suite501(DBMI),Pittsburgh,PA15213,USA
Fulllistofauthorinformationisavailableattheendofthearticle genes, as they explore genome regions with unknown
©2014Kuppuswamyetal.;licenseeBioMedCentralLtd.ThisisanOpenAccessarticledistributedunderthetermsofthe
CreativeCommonsAttributionLicense(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0),whichpermitsunrestricteduse,
distribution,andreproductioninanymedium,providedtheoriginalworkisproperlycredited.
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page2of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
biological relevance. Therefore, these studies often un- which is used to describe the localization, function or
cover several genes of unknown functions possibly par- the biological process, associated with a gene. All terms
ticipatinginhitherto unknownbiologicalpathways[4]. in this ontology can be categorized into these three cat-
A catalog of GWAS studies is maintained by National egories, namely cellular component (CC), molecular
Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) (http:// function(MF)andbiologicalprocess(BP).
www.genome.gov/gwastudies/) [5]. From this catalog, it Several previously published algorithms predict the
may be seen that the number of GWAS studies and the function of a gene from its sequence, protein interaction
coverage of traits and diseases under these studies are networks,geneexpressiondataandphylogeneticdata[16-19]
increasing rapidly. As of July 2012 1309 publications (see[11]foranextensivesurveyondifferentproteinfunction
have reported GWAS results on 674 traits or diseases methodsandtypesofdatasets).
(www.genome.gov/gwastudies, accessed 2012-July-17). One of the sequence-based algorithms called protein
The number of publications increased to 1628 reporting functionprediction (PFP) extracts the GO terms that are
848 traits (accessed 2013-June-13). The first replicable closely related to those that are extracted by direct se-
resultsfrom these studies mapped avariation incomple- quence homology matches in a PSI-BLAST search, and
ment factor H gene to age related macular degeneration scores the GO annotations based on their frequency of
[6].InaGWASstudypublishedin2007[7],thefollowing occurrence in the retrieved sequences; this way, the pre-
number of association signals reflecting disease suscepti- dicted GO terms represent functional domains shared
bilityeffectswerefound:1inbipolardisorder,1incoron- by the retrieved proteins. Two of the applications of PFP
ary artery disease, 9 in Crohn’s disease, 3 in rheumatoid predictions to large-scale datasets include uncharacter-
arthritis,7intype1diabetesand3intype2diabetes.An- ized sequences in several genomes and the Plasmodium
other GWAS study related to quantitative trait published falciparum (Malaria) PPI network. The performance
in 2010 revealed hundreds of genetic variants in 180 loci of PFP was assessed by measuring sequence coverage,
affectingadultheight,awell-knownpolygenictrait[8]. annotation specificity and annotation sensitivity. Several
Though extensive work has been carried out to iden- othersequencebasedmethodsdevelopedincludeGoFigure
tify the common genetic variants through GWAS, the [20]andGOtcha[21],whichscoretheGOtermsexploiting
exact mechanism of the action and role of these genes the hierarchy of the GO DAG structure. In GoFigure, GO
are yet to be discovered. Three major areas that need to database and Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD)
be explored for understanding the genetic basis of dis- wereused.Forevaluation,allthegenesinSGDwerean-
ease susceptibility are [9]: (i) identification of new loci alyzed and SGD was removed from the list of searched
with the genetic variants, (ii) determining the precise databases. The obtained output was then compared
position of causal variants and their phenotypic conse- to those present in the SGD. GoFigure performs a
quences, and (iii) discovery of functional mechanisms of homology search based on the input DNA or protein
loci andvariants,which isthefocusofthiswork. sequences and constructs a graph from the extracted
Here forward we refer to genes identified through GO terms. In Gotcha, databases are searched to obtain
GWAS studies in relation to any disease or trait as sequences similar to query sequence. The processed
GWAS genes. Lack of knowledge about the functionality search results provide pairwise matches with associated
of genes/proteins is an impediment to translating the R scores (R score=max [−log (E), o], E=Expectancy
10
knowledge gained from GWAS studies into clinically or score for pair), which are then added to the total score
biologicallyrelevantinsights.Experimentalmethodsdevel- for each GO term of the match sequence. The entire
oped to address this issue of protein function prediction graph up to the root node is assigned an R score. The
focus on the biological knowledge associated with genes datasets used include the sequences for Malaria, Fruit
andproteinssuchasgenesequences,proteinstructureand fly, yeast, human etc. The technique was evaluated by a
conformation[10], but thesearelow throughputinnature seven-fold crossvalidationbycomparingthepredictions
[11]. Determining gene/protein functions through experi- with those provided by the curators of the respective
ments is resource intensive, and often the hypotheses for genomesequenceconsortia.
experimentationarenotreadilyvisible.Itisourgoaltode- Lackofcompletelyannotatedsequencesintheavailable
velop a computational method to predict the localization, databases limits the prediction of annotations based on
andmolecularfunctionoftheGWASgenes. sequence similarity leading to development of other
Knowledgebasedcomputationaltechniquesforfunction methods which make use of semantic similarity mea-
prediction rely on functional classification schemes [12] sures for function prediction. The method developed by
such as Functional Catalogue (FunCat) [13], Clusters of Pandey et.al, improves on the standard classification-
Orthologous Groups (COGs) [14], and Gene Ontology based function prediction algorithms by incorporating
(GO) [15], among which GO is the most commonly the GO DAG structure information into the k-nearest
used annotation system. GO is a controlled vocabulary, neighborclassifierandusesLin’smeasureforevaluating
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page3of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
the semantic similarity between the nodes in the ontol- flows” to other proteins in the network over a period of
ogy [22]. The information in the neighborhood of pro- time. At the end of this period, each unannotated pro-
teins being tested for a target class was enhanced using tein is assigned an association score for that function
the substantial semantic similarity that exists between based on the amount of functional flow it received
the target class and its several neighbors. The results during the fixed period and its location in the PPI
from experiments carried out on an array of datasets network.
showed that the incorporation of the GO DAG struc- Contrary to the majority rule assignment, there have
ture leads to more accurate predictions. Other methods been many methods proposed which make use of GO
that use semantic similarity measures include function term associations of indirect neighbors (level 1) of a pro-
prediction algorithms proposed by Tao et al. [23] and tein in an interaction network. The underlying observa-
Tedder et al. [24]. The algorithm by Tao et al. uses in- tion behind this idea was that a protein may not have
formation theory-based semantic similarity (ITSS) ap- the same function as its direct interacting partner, but
proach in combination with the GO DAG structure to may be similar to its neighbors-of-neighbors [29]. For
predict functions of sparsely annotated GO terms. A K example, cortistatin (CORT) interacts directly with som-
nearest -neighbor algorithm along with ITSS measure atostatin receptors (SSTR), but it is functionally similar
was used to assign new edges to the concept nodes in to somatostatin (SST), which is a neighbor-of-neighbor
the sparse ontology networks. Precision and recall of to CORTs [30]. Advancing this reasoning, the concept
90% and 36% respectively for sparsely annotated net- of shared-neighborhood has been proposed which identi-
works were achieved using a 10 fold cross-validation. In fies the set of interacting proteins that are common to
an algorithm called PAGODA (Protein Assignment by two proteins to identify the confidence of an interaction
Gene Ontology Data Associations), semantic similarity that can be possible between the pair of proteins [31].
measure is used to group genes into functional clusters, Thisapproach can be extended to the nth neighbor in an
and then a Bayesian classifier is employed for term en- interaction network, where the nth neighbor of a protein
richment by assessing whether a pair of interacting can be reached through at-most n direct physical inter-
genes belongs to a functional cluster [24]. In this study, actions. The protein under consideration is assigned the
eight different Plasmodium falciparum datasets were function that had the highest χ2 value among functions
studied. Interaction data for P. falciparum was down- of the corresponding n-neighbors [32]. While these ap-
loaded from the IntAct database. The method was eval- proachesforfunctionassignmentbenefitfromtheinforma-
uated on all the genes that have GO annotation using a tion about PPIs, they do not fully exploit the relationships
leave-one-outcrossvalidationforeachGOterm. of GO terms among themselves as given by the directed
Other function prediction algorithms commonly used acyclicgraph(DAG)structureoftheontology.
include methods to extract information from protein- Oneoftheapproachesthathasnotbeenexploredinlit-
protein interaction networks. Network based approaches erature is the use of probabilistic approach to predict
may be classified into direct annotations and module functions of unknown genes using GO-DAG structure
assisted schemes [25]. In the direct annotation methods, andprotein-proteininteractions.Weproposeaprobabilis-
aproteinisassigned themostfrequently occurring func- ticapproachforpredictionofhithertounknownfunctions
tion among direct interacting partners to the function of of GWAS genes by capturing the complementarity of the
the candidate gene (majority rule assignment) or, the as- GOtermsbetweeninteractingpartnersaswellastherela-
signment was based on a correlation score amongst all tions of GO terms in the DAG. The complementarity of
possible function pairs of direct interacting partners. GO terms (i.e. the tendency of a pair of GO terms to be
However, in the module-assisted methods, the protein associated with each of two interacting proteins) may be
networks are first clustered into modules with similar computed from the GO annotations of protein pairs in
functionality followed by annotation of modules based theoverallprotein-proteininteractionnetwork[15].
ontheknownfunction ofitsmembers. We compared our approach to a randomized PPI net-
There have been many computational approaches to work constructed using the same number of interactions
GO annotation prediction using the majority assignment as the original PPI network. To evaluate the ranked lists
principle mentioned above. Markov Random Fields [26], generated in prediction, we derived the precision recall
Integrated probabilistic models [27],and otherGraphical curves at different threshold values, F-score metric was
based models [28] have been proposed which make use used to determine the prediction accuracies. Precision
of the functional similarity between interacting proteins. indicatesthefractionofpredictedtermsthatarerelevant
The method developed by Nabieva E. et al. [28] is based and recall determines the fraction of relevant terms that
on network flow and integrates both network topology are predicted. Results from this comparison indicate that
and locality measures. Each protein annotated with our method gives higher precision rates for CC and MF
a function is treated as a source from which “function categories of 58% (threshold=33), and 40% (threshold=
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page4of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
28) respectively compared to precision rates of 30% and TheprobabilityofassociationofaGOterm(fromthelist
18% respectively (at the same thresholds) for CC and MF ofCCandMFGOterms)withageneofunknownfunction
predictionsgeneratedusingrandomizedPPInetworks. is computed using the information from the probability of
Comparison with a function prediction approach based occurrence of pairs of GO terms (includes parent GO
on evaluation of semantic similarity among nodes in an terms) obtained from the training dataset of interactions
ontology and incorporation of those similarities in a k- andtheprobabilityofindividualGOtermoccurrences.
nearest neighbor classifier showed that the results from This approach is employed to predict the GO terms of
ourapproachcomparedfavorably. allhumanproteinsthathaveknownGOannotationswith
atleastoneinteractingpartner.Inaddition,itenrichesthe
Results and discussion genesthatalreadypossessGOassociationswithadditional
ApproachforGOtermpredictionandenrichment GO terms. The predicted CC and MF GO terms for each
We use Bayesian network on the GO DAG to resolve geneweresortedbasedontheassociationscoresgivenby
dependencies between GO terms of one protein and (1). For each gene, ranked lists of predicted GO terms
those of its interacting partners. Consider protein A that are displayed separately for CC and MF in HTML files
interacts with N proteins p , p , …, p with a total of k (http://severus.dbmi.pitt.edu/engo/GOPRED.html). A few
1 2 N
GO termsg ,g , …, g .The probability that aGO term t rowsfroma color-coded HTMLfile withthe CC and MF
1 2 k
is associated with the protein A, given by P (t|g , g , …, termsforagene(see“linktodetailedversion”onthegene
1 2
g ),ispredicted usingBayesrule page) are shown in Figure 1. The cells in the ranked lists
k
(cid:4) (cid:1) (cid:3) (cid:4) (cid:1) (cid:3) are color coded to show which terms are previously
P t(cid:1) g 1;g 2;g 3;……g k ∝P g 1;g 2;g 3;……;g k(cid:1) t (cid:1)PðtÞ ð1Þ known to be associated with the gene (green) and which
terms are novel associations (pink). The ranked lists are
The value P(g ,g ,g ,……,g |t) can be computed as a
1 2 3 k useful for manual interpretation of the predicted annota-
Bayesian network of GO DAG using its hierarchical
tions. As the GO DAG structure up to the root nodes
structureas:
(cid:4) (cid:1) Yk (cid:4) (cid:1) (cid:4) (cid:3) (cid:3) were considered when making predictions, general terms
P g ;g ;g ;……;g (cid:1) tÞ¼ P g (cid:1) par g ;t ð2Þ werefoundatthetopoftherankedlistsbecauseofthein-
1 2 3 k i i
i¼1 creased frequency of their occurrence among genes. To
ensurethatouralgorithmpredictedspecifictermsaswell,
Where par (g ) denote the set of parent GO terms of
i
at the top of the ranked lists, we extracted the number of
theterm g intheGODAGstructure.
i
geneassociationspertermforMFcategoryundertwocir-
The valueisP(g|par(g),t)computedasfollows:
i i
cumstances(1)usingathresholdof30forfivesetsof100
From the training data, the frequencies f(x,y) are com-
genes each and (2) for a given set at different thresholds
puted, where x and y represent GO terms associated
ranging from10 to50insteps of10. Plots ofthe number
with the two proteins of an interacting pair, and f(x,y)
of genes versus GO terms in both the cases (Figure 2A
represents the number of times they occur together
and B) show GO terms with very few genes associated
amongst all interactions in the training data. Therefore,
withthem. Theseresults indicatethat severalspecificGO
wehave
termswerepredictedinthetop30oftherankedlist;simi-
(cid:4) (cid:4) (cid:3)(cid:1)
Pðg i(cid:1) (cid:1) par(cid:4) g i(cid:3) ;t(cid:3) ¼P Pg (cid:4)i p; ap ra (cid:4)r gg (cid:3)i jt(cid:1) ÞtÞ ð3Þ l ta hr et cr ae pn ad biw lita ys os fee thn ea mt olo dw eler toth pr re es dh ico tld ss pea cs ifw ice tl el, rmin sd .icating
i
Evaluationoftheproposedapproach
Since g andpar(g)occurtogether,we get
i i The HTML files present qualitative insight into the per-
(cid:4) (cid:4) (cid:3)(cid:1) (cid:4) (cid:1)
P g ;par g (cid:1) tÞ¼P g (cid:1) tÞ ð4Þ formance of the algorithm. To evaluate the performance
i i i
quantitatively, we plotted a set of precision-recall curves
Substituting(4)in(3): using datasets that have a large number of known GO
(cid:4) (cid:1) (cid:4) (cid:3)
Pðg i(cid:1) (cid:1) par(cid:4) g i(cid:3) ;t(cid:3) ¼ P(cid:4) pP arg (cid:4)i(cid:1) gtÞ (cid:3)(cid:1) (cid:1) tÞ¼ P(cid:4) pP arg (cid:4)i; gt (cid:3) ;t(cid:3)
i i
CountðproteinisannotatedwithganditsinteractingpartnerisannotatedwithtÞ
¼
CountðpoteinisannotatedwithparðgÞanditsinteractingpartnerisannotatedwithtÞ
fðg;tÞ
¼
fðparðgÞ;tÞ
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page5of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
Figure1Rowsfromcolor-codedHTMLfileshowingtheCCandMFtermsforgeneCHRNB2:cholinergicreceptor,nicotinic,beta2
(neuronal)(Entrezid:1141).GOtermswererankedaccordingtorelativeassociationscoresforthehumangeneswithatleastoneinteraction.
terms (as an exhaustive list of GO term associations is predicted, and Recall is defined to be the percentage of
not known for even a small set of genes) and at least correct instances predicted out of the actual number of
one PPI. These genes were not included in constructing instances (GO annotations including parents in this
theprobabilistic model. case) that are associated with the protein. The average
2,500 genes were randomly sampled to create 5 sets precision and recall curves (for each of the 5 gene sets)
of 100 genes each. The GO annotations (CC and MF) plotted against different threshold values are shown in
for these 5 sets of 100 genes each were predicted and Figures 3A, C for CC and Figures 3B, D for MF. As ex-
ranked according to their relative association values. pected, the precision values were seen to decrease with
Precision and Recall values were computed over a an increase in the threshold value as GO terms pre-
range of threshold values (5 to 50, in steps of 5) for dicted lower down in the ranked lists were irrelevant as
each of the100 genes and averaged over the 100genes. opposed to recall that increased with threshold indicat-
Precision of the system is defined to be the percentage ing the increase in the total number of relevant terms
of correct instances out of the total number of instances retrieved.
Figure2Evaluationofthespecificityoftheproposedmethodforgeneannotationspredictions.Figuresshowtheplotsofthenumberof
associatedgenesversustheGOtermindex(A)forallfivesets(Set1toSet5)of100geneseachatathreshold=30,(B)foronesetof100genes
atfivethresholds=10,20,30,40,50.
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page6of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
Figure3Evaluationoftheproposedmethodforgeneannotationspredictions.Figuresinthetoppanelshowtheplotsofprecisionversus
thresholdfor5setsof100geneseachfor(A)CCGOtermsand(B)MFGOterms.Thethresholdsrangedfrom5to50instepsof5.Figuresin
thebottompanelshowtheplotsofrecallversusthresholdplottedfor5setsof100geneseachfor(C)CCGOtermsand(D)MFGOterms.
ComparisonwitharandomizedPPInetworkandan precision was compromised at higher recall values and
existingfunctionpredictionalgorithm this trend was seen only in the probabilistic case but not
RandomizedPPInetwork seen in the case of randomized predictions. This shows
We compared our method with a randomized PPI net- that in the case of randomized predictions, the precision
work generated as explained in the Methods section. curveisnotmonotonicbecauseofthearbitraryincidence
Briefly, the number of edges in a random PPI network ofpredictionsintherankedlistofGOterms.
was selected to be equal to that of the actual PPI net- The optimum operating point on the precision recall
work and the GO DAG structure was exploited to make curves is selected based on the principle of equal error
a fair comparison. Precision - Recall values were com- rate, where the precision equals recall. From the preci-
puted over a range of threshold values (5 to 50, in steps sion recall curves for CC, the optimal operating point is
of 5) for each of the 100 genes and averaged over the computed to be at a threshold of 33 (top 5% of the en-
100 genes. The precision-recall curves plotted for each tire list of CC terms) where precision and recall values
of the 5 gene sets are shown in Figure 4A and B for CC equal ~58% compared to a precision/recall of ~30% in
and MF respectively. Similar computations were carried the caseofrandomnetwork. Inthe caseofMF,athresh-
out for predictions obtained using a randomized net- old 28 was chosen with a precision/recall of ~40% com-
work and compared with the probabilistic results as pared to~18%inthe case ofrandomnetwork.
showninFigure 4AandB.Asseenfrom the figures,itis F-scoremeasureswerederivedfromtheprecisionrecall
clear that the probabilistic method performs better than curves to determine accuracy. The F-score (harmonic
arandomizednetwork.Precision-Recallcurves(averaged mean of precision and recall) at different thresholds were
over5genesets)wereplottedforCCandMFasshownin plottedasseeninFigure4EandF.F-scoreofabout~58%
Figure 4C and D respectively and compared with ran- and ~40% at a threshold of 33 and 28 were obtained for
domized network curves. As seen from the figures, the CCandMFrespectively.
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page7of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
Figure4ComparisonoftheproposedmethodwithrandomizedPPInetwork.Figures(A)and(B)showthecomparisonofprecision-recall
curvesbetweentheproposedmethod(foreachofthefivegenesets)andarandomizedPPInetworkconstructedexploitingtheGODAGstructurefor
(A)forCCGOtermsand(B)MFGOterms.Figures(C)and(D)showthecomparisonofaverageprecision-recallcurvesbetweentheproposed
method(averagedover5genesets)andarandomizedPPInetworkfor(C)CCGOtermsand(D)MFGOterms.Figures(E)and(F)showthe
comparisonofF-scoreversusthresholdcurves,betweentheproposedmethodandarandomizedPPInetworkfor(E)CCGOtermsand(F)MF
GOterms.F-scoreiscalculatedastheharmonicmeanofprecisionandrecallvalues.
We compared our approach with a well-established al- generate a detailed list of ranked predictions by the label
gorithmbyPandeyetal.[22].Thealgorithmevaluatesthe similarity-incorporatedkNNclassifiers.138BPtermswere
semantic similarity between nodes in ontology and incor- considered for evaluation. The gene list (1,622 genes)and
poratesthesesimilaritiesintok-nearestneighborclassifier. the138BPclassesfromthesamedatasetwereconsidered
TheMnaimnehgeneexpressiondata set [33] wasusedto and predictions were carried out using our approach. As
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page8of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
our approach results in a ranked list of GO terms as AvailabilityofannotationsforGWASgenespriorto
opposed to a ranked list of genes obtained in [22], we prediction
created an inverse mapping of GO terms to genes. To We obtained the gene-disease associations from the
obtain the mapping we carried out a per GO term GWAS catalog (accessed 2012-July-17). Two of the
evaluation and identified the genes associated with 4,485 GWAS genes are found to be associated with
each GO term. It should be noted that since our ap- more than 180 diseases and the remaining 4,483 genes
proach assigns every GO term to each gene in a are associated from 1 to 26 diseases each (Figure 5). The
ranked fashion (ranked by relative p-value), a thresh- distribution for GWAS genes with unknown function is
old of 30 in each ranked list was chosen while obtain- shown in Figure 6A. Out of the 4,483 genes, 54 genes
ing the inverse mapping. This implies that a gene is are found to contain no information about GO CC
assumed to be associated with a GO term if the pre- terms, 214 genes have no information about MF terms
dicted rank of the GO term for that gene is between 1 and about 200 genes have no information about BP
and 30. The resulting inverse map is a non-ranked list terms. 273 genes are found to not have any of the three
of genes for each GO term, as the relative p-values in terms. As our approach relies on GO terms of interact-
our approach are not comparable across genes. How- ing partners, in this study GWAS genes with unknown
ever, since the GO term was predicted for those genes functions but with at least one known interaction were
within top 30 of the ranked list in our results, all the considered. With this constraint, the dataset contained
genes associated with the GO term in the inverse map about 31 genes without known GO terms as shown in
are likely to have strong association with the term. As Figure 6B. GO annotations of all GWAS genes are pre-
the results from Pandey et al.‘s approach is a ranked dicted using the proposed approach leading to novel GO
list of genes for each GO term as opposed to a non- term annotations when none were previously known, or
ranked inverse map obtained from our approach, a GOterm enrichmentwhensome were known.
semi-quantitative measure was developed for compari- CC and MF GO terms were predicted for the list of 3
son. Using this measure, top 20 predicted genes asso- GWAS genes with unknown GO terms (‘orphan genes’)
ciated with 5 GO terms (with high to low AUC scores) using the probabilistic algorithm (color coded ranked
in Pandey et al.’s results were checked for presence in lists are given at http://severus.dbmi.pitt.edu/engo/gogwas.
our inverse map results for the same GO terms. It is html). An example of a ranked list is shown in Figure 7.
observed that (Table 1) most of the genes are present GiventheknowledgeoftheassociationofGWASgenesto
in the inverse map. On an average about 18 out of top diseases, we carried out some intuitive evaluation to see if
20 genes predicted by Pandey et al. are seen to be the predictions seem relevant. We chose a couple of genes
present in our inverse map for each GO term. This fromthelistofGWASgenesandlookedattheirpredicted
implies that for each GO term, the top predicted genes MFandCCGOterms.
by Pandey et al. are also likely to be predicted by our
approach with a high degree of confidence. SYN2
The SYN2 gene encodes synapsin II, which encompasses
GOtermpredictionfororphanGWASgenes the alternatively spliced proteins synapsin IIa and IIb
We are particularly interested in finding the GO term and belongs to the family of synaptic vesicle-associated
associations forthegenes thatarefound tobeassociated phosphoproteins. Synapsin II is known to localize to the
todiseases/traitsthrough GWAS. cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles in the axonal
Table1Semi-quantitativecomparisonofprobabilisticapproachwithstandardfunctionpredictionapproach[22]using
Mnaimnehdataset
GOterm Fractionofgenescorrectlypredicted Genenames(Yeast)
byprobabilisticapproach
GO:0008213 18/20 YLR333C,YOR182C,YGR162W,YHR021C,YMR282C,YJL189W,YLR287C-A,YJR056C,YLR455W,
YLR185W,YNL313C,YDL002C,YNL132W,YMR031C,YFR032C-A,YNL162W,YML017W,YEL054C
GO:0001510 18/20 YDR161W,YHR052W,YGR162W,YIL091C,YDR101C,YDL063C,YLR009W,YIL096C,YJR032W,
YCR016W,YLR287C,YKL078W,YGR071C,YOL077C,YPL226W,YOR361C,YGR173W,YPL193W
GO:0018193 17/20 YOR182C,YHR021C,YJL189W,YLR287C-A,YNL313C,YLR185W,YNL162W,YDL075W,YJL136C,
YMR282C,YHR141C,YOL098C,YGR034W,YLR406C,YGR162W,YFR032C-A,YIL069C
GO:0050790 18/20 YGR162W,YLR455W,YNL031C,YMR124W,YLR019W,YGL140C,YEL025C,YMR031C,YBR079C,
YFR016C,YJL084C,YBL002W,YJR056C,YDR334W,YPL282C,YNL301C,YMR144W,YLR419W,YKL219W
GO:0009966 18/20 YHR155W,YJL084C,YDR520C,YHL004W,YER033C,YNL289W,YKR104W,YKL209C,YBR071W,
YGR162W,YOR077W,YIR016W,YHL029C,YGR054W,YDL123W,YCR030C,YOR166C,YNL208W
Tableshowsthefractionofthegenescorrectlypredictedusingtheprobabilisticapproach.Thedatasetconsistedof1622yeastgenesand138BPGOterms.
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page9of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
SYN2’sroleinTypeIIdiabetes
Type II diabetes is a chronic condition characterized by
elevatedbloodglucoseleveldueacombinationofresistance
toinsulinbycertaintissuesanddeficientinsulinsecretionby
the pancreatic β Langerhan cells [36]. Insulin is an anabolic
hormone responsible for glucose transport and storage as
well as glycogen, triglyceride and protein synthesis: essential
processes in tissues such as liver, adipose and muscle that
becomeresistanttotheeffectsofinsulininTypeIIdiabetes.
The secretion of insulin in response to glucose (rather than
thebasalrelease)occursinabiphasicmanner[37].Thefirst
phaseencompassestheimmediateexocytosisofinsulinfrom
granules that are readily docked, and the second phase
requiresmobilizationofthelargerpoolofinsulingranulesin
reserve, which is a slower and more sustained process. In
typeIIdiabetes,adefectintheearly,fastphaseofinsulinre-
leaseismoreprominentlyobserved[38].Therefore,adefect
in either the signaling pathway involved in or the structural
component of vesicle release of insulin granules must drive
the pathogenesis of Type II diabetes. Looking at the predic-
tions for SYN2, then, terms such as membrane-bounded
organelle, synapse, vesicle or cytoplasmic membrane-
Figure5Plotrepresentingthenumberofdiseasesassociatedwith bound vesicle suggest its localization to synaptic vesicles.
GWASgenes.IndividualGWASgenesareplottedonx-axisandthe
Furthermore, SYN2, like its better-characterized counterpart
numbersofdiseasestheyareassociatedwithareony-axis.4,485
SYN1,containsphosphorylationsitesforcalcium-calmodulin
GWASgenesarearrangedindescendingorderofthenumberof
disease/traitassociations. dependentproteinkinase[39].Theexistenceofthesesitesin
concordance with the predictions protein serine/threonine
kinase activity suggests that such signal transduction
pathwayscouldbeinvolvedinregulatinginsulinrelease
terminal of presynaptic neurons [34]. These neuronal through the activity of SYN2. Therefore, it could be
phosphoproteins function to modulate neurotransmitter hypothesized that SYN2 variants could potentially play
release [35] and are implicated in many neuropsychiatric a role in the pathogenesis of Type II diabetes through
diseases such as schizophrenia. Interestingly, SYN2 has the defect in modulation of insulin granule exocytosis,
been implicated inType IIdiabetesbyGWASanalysis. particularlyduringthefirstphaseofinsulinrelease.
A B
Cellular Component Cellular Component
54 30
23 56 5 24
273 31
M Fo ul ne cc tu iola nr B Pio rolo cg ei sc sal M Fo ul ne cc tu iola nr B Pio rolo cg ei sc sal
214 161 200 112 29 86
Figure6DistributionofGWASgenesamongGOcategories:CellularComponent,BiologicalProcessandMolecularFunction.(A)Venn
diagramshowingthedistributionofallidentifiedGWASgenes;about273geneswereidentifiedwithnoCC,MFandBPcomponents.(B)Venn
diagramshowingthedistributionofGWASgeneslistedinthehumanprotein-proteininteractionsdownloadedfromHPRDwebsite.About31
geneswereidentifiedwithnoCC,MFandBPcomponents.
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page10of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
Figure7Rowsfromcolor-codedHTMLfileshowingtheCCandMFtermsforGWASgeneTRA@Tcellreceptoralphalocus(Entrez
id:6955)associatedwithNarcolepsy.GOtermswererankedaccordingtorelativeassociationscoresforthehumanGWASgeneswithatleast
oneknowninteraction.
Similarly the predicted terms cell projection, neuron TRA
projection, synapse in addition to vesicle or membrane- TRAgeneencodestheT-cellreceptoralphachain[34]and
bounded vesicles confirm its role in neurodegenerative is found to be associated with Narcolepsy that is a neuro-
diseases such as schizophrenia that is associated with the logical disorder characterized by sleepiness or inability to
dysfunction of synaptic transmission due to various mole- regulate sleep cycles [41]. Narcolepsy has been linked to
cules such as synapsins. The concentration of these mole- polymorphismsingenesencodingtheTcellreceptoralpha
cules is reduced in the brain of schizophrenics and chain[42].Hypocretin,aneurotransmitterplaysanimport-
therefore affects the neurotransmitter release that immedi- ant role in sleep-wake cycles [43]. Deficiency in hypocretin
atelyprecedesvesiclefusion[40]. producingneuronsinthebrainresultsinthisdisorderthat
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page11of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
is usually accompanied by cataplexy (emotionally triggered The approach was used to predict the CC and MF GO
lossofmuscletone)[41]. termsoforphanGWASgenes.Similarly,theBPtermsfor
Inindividualspredisposedtonarcolepsy,oneofthecom- GWASgenescanalsobepredictedusingthisapproach.
mon factors involves the Human Leukocute Antigen An extension of the project would involve comparison
(HLA) complex found on chromosome 6. HLAcomplexes of our approach with random PPI networks without GO
are major histocompatibility complexes (MHC) that are DAG, to access the relative importance of GO DAG ver-
cell-surface molecules mediating interactions of immune sus PPI in prediction accuracies of genes. There are sev-
cells. HLA complexes corresponding to MHC-1 class, dis- eral functions in nature yet to be determined which are
play proteins produced within the cells to the Tcells that likely to be associated with the existing annotated pro-
then eliminate the infected cells. The variations in these teins. Our algorithm predicts several novel functions;
HLAgenesresultinthedecreaseoftheneuronsproducing however these need to be experimentally verified further
hypocretin due to an increase in autoimmune response to to confirm the validity of their association with a corre-
these proteins [41]. Looking into the predictions for TRA spondinggene.
gene, terms such as protein complex, MHC class 1 pro- Overall, this work illustrates the effectiveness of using
tein complex, and phagocytic vesicle membrane suggest the knowledge of protein interactions in conjunction
theroleofauto-immunityinnarcolepsy. with GO DAG structure for predicting annotations of
The immune response of T cells is characterized by a genes with unknown function. The approach shows sig-
series of biochemical events that involve several enzymes, nificant promise by predicting specific GO terms for the
co-receptors and transcription factors. The T-cell receptor GWASgenesthatareoftranslationalinterest.
alphaispresentedwiththeantigensboundtoMHC-1mole-
cules through an endogenous pathway. In the endogenous Materials and methods
pathway,thepeptidefragmentsaretransportedtothelumen Datasets
of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) through transporter The Gene Ontology Consortium (www.geneontology.
proteins. The peptide fragments then bind to the MHC-1 org)presentsacontrolledvocabulary forannotatingpro-
protein and the Golgi apparatus transports this complex to teins by categorizing the protein features into three gen-
the surface of the cell where it is recognized by theTcells eral types: cellular component (CC), biological process
[44]. Predicted GO terms including enzyme activity, tran- (BP) and molecular function (MF). The terms in the
scription factor binding, ER to Golgi transport vesicle ontology are arranged in the form of a directed acyclic
membrane, ER to Golgi transport vesicle, endoplasmic graph(DAG)inwhichthe GOterms aredivided into in-
reticulum, endoplasmic reticulum membrane or nuclear creasingly specific details further away from root. A di-
outermembrane-endoplasmicreticulummembranenet- rected edge from GO term x to GO term y confers the
workadvocatethesystemofantigenpresentationtoTcells. relationship that y is an instance of x, meaning that
whenageneorproteinisassociatedwithy,itwouldalso
Conclusions be associated with x. This association continues up to
We developed a probabilistic method to predict the func- the root of the tree. The consortium also annotates
tions and localizations of genes, based on PPIs. The geneswith theontology terms bycuratingliterature.
method associates a GO term to a gene with probability A list of annotated human-genes is obtained from the
valuesthatarecalculatedbasedonthefrequencyofoccur- geneontologywebsite(accessedJuly2012).Alistofabout
rence of the GO term with the GO terms of interacting 48,419 known protein-protein interactions (accessed July
partnersofthegene.Theontologystructureoftheannota- 2012) is obtained from the Human Protein Reference
tions is also considered while making predictions. Exploit- Database(www.hprd.org)andtheBioGRID(http://thebio-
ation of the GO DAG structure results in general terms grid.org/). There are about 18,005 genes that are anno-
beingpredictedatthetopoftherankedlists.However,our tated with GO terms and about 5,092 that have at least
algorithm also predicts more specific terms within the top one known interaction. From these genes, five datasets of
5% of the total list of GO terms considered, without 100 genes each were created having highest number of
compromisingprecision.Futureworkwouldentailincorp- GO terms and atleast one interaction. The given anno-
oration of some form of normalization based on the fre- tations of genes are extended to explicitly include the
quencyofoccurrenceofGOtermstoeliminatethegeneral ancestors. For evaluation of our algorithm, the deve-
terms. Systematic comparison with the randomly gener- loped method is compared to a random PPI network
atedPPInetworks(withGODAG)showsbetterprediction constructed exploiting the GO DAG structure for a fair
accuracies with our approach. Comparison with an exist- comparison. To construct the random network, the
ing function prediction algorithm resulted in similar number of interactions (edges) is fixed to be equal
predictions demonstrating the efficiency of our approach to the number of interactions in the actual network.
topredictfunctionsofgenes. The enriched terms are ranked in descending order of
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page12of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
significance. Finally, the algorithm is employed to pre- http://severus.dbmi.pitt.edu/engo/gogwas.html.Thewebsite
dict the functions of orphan GWAS proteins with un- shows the GO terms for CC and MF separately, ranked in
known GO terms. Computations for modeling and thedescendingorderoftheirassociationprobabilityvalues.
prediction are carried out for CC and MF separately The source code and the input data files may be down-
by considering only those GO terms that correspond to loadedfromhttp://severus.dbmi.pitt.edu/engo/.
thesecategories.
Abbreviations
GO:Geneontology;GWAS:Genomewideassociationstudies;PPI:Protein-
DatasetofGWASgeneswithunknownfunctions
proteininteractions;CC:Cellularcomponent;MF:Molecularfunction;
The list of GWAS genes obtained from the GWAS cata- DAG:Directedacyclicgraph.
log was parsed. Of these, the genes with at least one
interaction but not having known GO CC or MF terms Competinginterests
Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenocompetinginterests.
were collected. The GO terms of these genes were then
predicted using the information from protein-protein Authors’contributions
interaction network. Genes with only CC, only BP and ThealgorithmhasbeendevelopedandimplementedbySA,UKwithsome
contributionsbyYWandevaluatedbyUKundertheguidanceofMKGand
only MF missing were identified along with the genes
conceptualizationbyNB.ThemanuscripthasbeenpreparedbyUK,MGand
with GO terms of two missing categories (i.e. both CC reviewedandapprovedbyallauthors.
andMF,CC andBP,CCandMF).
Acknowledgements
ThisworkhasbeenfundedinpartbytheBRAINSgrantR01MH094564
Evaluationoftheperformanceofthealgorithm
awardedtoMGbytheNationalInstituteofMentalHealthofNational
The idea is to carry out quantitative evaluation of the al- InstitutesofHealth(NIMH/NIH)ofUSA.TheauthorswishtothankNaokiOrii
gorithm performance byplottingthe precision andrecall forhishelpwithcreatingHTMLfilesshowingthepredictions.
values vs threshold for all 5 datasets. The known GO
Authordetails
term annotations are removed from the test sets and 1DepartmentofBiomedicalInformaticsandIntelligentSystemsProgram,
these are predicted using the data from the training UniversityofPittsburgh,Pittsburgh,PA15213,USA.2IntelligentSystems
Program,UniversityofPittsburgh,5607BaumBoulevard,Suite501(DBMI),
set. For each category, the predicted GO terms are then
Pittsburgh,PA15213,USA.3SupercomputerEducationandResearchCentre,
compared with original annotations to determine the IndianInstituteofScience,Bangalore560012,India.
number of correctly predicted annotations. For each
Received:6January2013Accepted:11March2014
gene, the percentage of predicted GO terms that are
Published:3April2014
relevant (precision) and the percentage of relevant GO
terms that are predicted (recall) are computed at differ- References
ent threshold values ranging from 5 to 50 (in steps of 5). 1. HirschhornJN,DalyMJ:Genome-wideassociationstudiesforcommon
diseasesandcomplextraits.NatRevGenet2005,6(2):95–108.
The precision and recall values are averaged over 100
2. McCarthyMI,AbecasisGR,CardonLR,GoldsteinDB,LittleJ,IoannidisJP,
genes and are plotted against threshold values for each HirschhornJN:Genome-wideassociationstudiesforcomplextraits:
gene set. Precision versus recall curves for each gene set
consensus,uncertaintyandchallenges.NatRevGenet2008,9(5):356–369.
3. HirschhornJN,GajdosZK:Genome-wideassociationstudies:resultsfrom
were alsoplotted.
thefirstfewyearsandpotentialimplicationsforclinicalmedicine.
AnnuRevMed2011,62:11–24.
ComparisonofourmethodwithrandomPPInetworks 4. HirschhornJN:Genomewideassociationstudies–illuminatingbiologic
pathways.NEnglJMed2009,360(17):1699–1701.
The performance of the algorithm is compared to ran-
5. GWASCatalog.http://www.genome.gov/gwastudies/.
dom PPI network generated by exploiting the GO DAG 6. KleinRJ,ZeissC,ChewEY,TsaiJY,SacklerRS,HaynesC,HenningAK,
structure. The random network is constructed to have SanGiovanniJP,ManeSM,MayneST,BrackenMB,FerrisFL,OttJ,Barnstable
C,HohJ:ComplementfactorHpolymorphisminage-relatedmacular
random interactions between proteins but the number degeneration.Science2005,308(5720):385–389.
of edges is maintained equal to the actual PPI network. 7. Genome-wideassociationstudyof14,000casesofsevencommondiseases
The precision-recall values along with F-scores (har- and3,000sharedcontrols:Genome-wideassociationstudyof14,000
casesofsevencommondiseasesand3,000sharedcontrols.Nature2007,
monic mean of precision and recall) were computed for 447(7145):661–678.
both the actual network (averaged over 5 datasets) and 8. LangoAllenH,EstradaK,LettreG,BerndtSI,WeedonMN,RivadeneiraF,
random network at 10 different thresholds 5 to 50 in WillerCJ,JacksonAU,VedantamS,RaychaudhuriS,FerreiraT,WoodAR,
WeyantRJ,SegrèAV,SpeliotesEK,WheelerE,SoranzoN,ParkJH,YangJ,
steps of 5. Plots of precision versus recall and F-scores
GudbjartssonD,Heard-CostaNL,RandallJC,QiL,VernonSmithA,MägiR,
versus thresholdwere plotted for both cases. PastinenT,LiangL,HeidIM,LuanJ,ThorleifssonG,etal:Hundredsofvariants
clusteredingenomiclociandbiologicalpathwaysaffecthumanheight.
Nature2010,467(7317):832–838.
Availability of data
9. McCarthyMI,HirschhornJN:Genome-wideassociationstudies:potential
Thepredictionsforallthehumanproteins(withatleast nextstepsonageneticjourney.HumMolGenet2008,17(R2):R156–R165.
one known protein-protein interaction) are available 10. HvidsenTR:Predictingfunctionofgenesandproteinsfromsequence,
structureandexpressiondata.ActaUniversitatisUpsaliensis,Comprehensive
at http://severus.dbmi.pitt.edu/engo/GOPRED.html. The
SummariesofUppsalaDissertationsfromtheFacultyofScienceand
ranked list of prediction for GWAS genes is available at Technology2004,999:63.ISBN91-554-6014-3.
Kuppuswamyetal.AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology2014,9:10 Page13of13
http://www.almob.org/content/9/1/10
11. PandeyG,KumarV,SteinbachM:ComputationalApproachesforProtein AndrewsBJ,HughesTR:Explorationofessentialgenefunctionsviatitratable
FunctionPrediction:ASurvey.TwinCities:UniversityofMinnesota;2006. promoteralleles.Cell2004,118(1):31–44.
12. ZengE,DingC,NarasimhanG,HolbrookSR:Estimatingsupportfor 34. NationalCenterforBiotechnologyInformation,Genedatabase:www.ncbi.
protein-proteininteractiondatawithapplicationstofunctionprediction. nlm.nih.gov/gene/.
ComputSystBioinformaticsConf2008,7:73–84. 35. GreengardP,ValtortaF,CzernikAJ,BenfenatiF:Synapticvesicle
13. RueppA,ZollnerA,MaierD,AlbermannK,HaniJ,MokrejsM,TetkoI, phosphoproteinsandregulationofsynapticfunction.Science1993,
GuldenerU,MannhauptG,MunsterkotterM,MewesHW:TheFunCat, 259(5096):780–785.
afunctionalannotationschemeforsystematicclassificationofproteins 36. MahlerRJ,AdlerML:Type2diabetesMellitus:updateondiagnosis,
fromwholegenomes.NucleicAcidsRes2004,32(18):5539–5545. pathophysiology,andtreatment.JClinEndocrinolMetab1999,84(4):1165–1171.
14. TatusovRL,FedorovaND,JacksonJD,JacobsAR,KiryutinB,KooninEV, 37. PedersenMG,CorradinA,ToffoloGM,CobelliC:Asubcellularmodelof
KrylovDM,MazumderR,MekhedovSL,NikolskayaAN,RaoBS,SmirnovS, glucose-stimulatedpancreaticinsulinsecretion.PhilTransRSocA2008,
Sverdlov AV, Vasudevan S, Wolf YI, Yin JJ, Natale DA: The COG 366:3525–3543.
database: an updated version includes eukaryotes. BMC Bioinforma 38. DanielS,NodaM,StraubSG,SharpGW:Identificationofthedocked
2003, 4:41. granulepoolresponsibleforthefirstphaseofglucose-stimulatedinsulin
15. AshburnerM,BallCA,BlakeJA,BotsteinD,ButlerH,CherryJM,DavisAP, secretion.Diabetes1999,48(9):1686–1690.
DolinskiK,DwightSS,EppigJT,HarrisMA,HillDP,Issel-TarverL,KasarskisA, 39. SudhofTC,CzernikAJ,KaoHT,TakeiK,JohnstonPA,HoriuchiA,KanazirSD,
LewisS,MateseJC,RichardsonJE,RingwaldM,RubinGM,SherlockG:Gene WagnerMA,PerinMS,CamilliPD,GreengardP:Synapsins:mosaicsof
ontology:toolfortheunificationofbiology.TheGeneOntology sharedandindividualdomainsinafamilyofsynapticvesicle
Consortium.NatGenet2000,25(1):25–29. phosphoproteins.Science1989,245(4925):1474–1480.
16. Pena-CastilloL,TasanM,MyersCL,LeeH,JoshiT,ZhangC,GuanY,Leone 40. LeeHJ,SongJY,KimJW,JinS,HongMS,ParkJK,ChungJ,ShibataH,
M,PagnaniA,KimWK,KrumpelmanC,TianW,ObozinskiG,QiY,Mostafavi FukumakiY:Associationstudyofpolymorphismsinsynapticvesicle-
S,LinGN,BerrizGF,GibbonsFD,LanckrietG,QiuJ,GrantC,BarutcuogluZ, associatedgenes,SYN2andCPLX2,withschizophrenia.BehavBrainFunct
HillDP,Warde-FarleyD,GrouiosC,RayD,BlakeJA,DengM,JordanMI, 2005,1–15.
NobleWS,etal:AcriticalassessmentofMusmusculusgenefunction 41. FaracoJ,LinX,LiR,HintonL,MignotE:Geneticstudiesinnarcolepsy,a
predictionusingintegratedgenomicevidence.GenomeBiol2008, disorderaffectingREMsleep.JHered1999,90(1):129–132.
9(Suppl1):S2. 42. FontanaA,GastH,ReithW,RecherM,BirchlerT,BassettiCL:Narcolepsy:
17. HawkinsT,ChitaleM,LubanS,KiharaD:PFP:Automatedpredictionof autoimmunity,effectorTcellactivationduetoinfection,orTcell
geneontologyfunctionalannotationswithconfidencescoresusing independent,majorhistocompatibilitycomplexclassIIinducedneuronal
proteinsequencedata.Proteins2009,74(3):566–582. loss?Brain2010,133:1300–1311.
18. EdgarR,DomrachevM,LashAE:GeneExpressionOmnibus:NCBIgene 43. MignotE:Acommentaryontheneurobiologyofthehypocretin/orexin
expressionandhybridizationarraydatarepository.NucleicAcidsRes2002,
system.Neuropsychopharmacology2001,5Suppl:S5–S13.
30(1):207–210. 44. AlbertsB,JohnsonA,LewisJ,RaffM,RobertsK,WalterP:MolecularBiology
19. GaasterlandT,RaganMA:Constructingmultigenomeviewsofwhole oftheCell.4thedition.NewYork:GarlandScience;2002.
microbialgenomes.MicrobCompGenomics1998,3(3):177–192.
20. KhanS,SituG,DeckerK,SchmidtCJ:GoFigure:automatedGeneOntology doi:10.1186/1748-7188-9-10
annotation.Bioinformatics2003,19(18):2484–2485. Citethisarticleas:Kuppuswamyetal.:Predictinggeneontology
21. MartinDM,BerrimanM,BartonGJ:GOtcha:anewmethodforprediction annotationsoforphanGWASgenesusingprotein-proteininteractions.
ofproteinfunctionassessedbytheannotationofsevengenomes. AlgorithmsforMolecularBiology20149:10.
BMCBioinforma2004,5:178.
22. PandeyG,MyersCL,KumarV:Incorporatingfunctionalinter-relationships
intoproteinfunctionpredictionalgorithms.BMCBioinforma2009,10:142.
23. TaoY,SamL,LiJ,FriedmanC,LussierYA:Informationtheoryappliedto
thesparsegeneontologyannotationnetworktopredictnovelgene
function.Bioinformatics2007,23(13):i529–i538.
24. TedderPM,BradfordJR,NeedhamCJ,McConkeyGA,BulpittAJ,Westhead
DR:Genefunctionpredictionusingsemanticsimilarityclusteringand
enrichmentanalysisinthemalariaparasitePlasmodiumfalciparum.
Bioinformatics2010,26(19):2431–2437.
25. SharanR,UlitskyI,ShamirR:Network-basedpredictionofprotein
function.MolSystBiol2007,3:88.
26. DengM,TuZ,SunF,ChenT:Mappinggeneontologytoproteinsbased
onprotein-proteininteractiondata.Bioinformatics2004,20(6):895–902.
27. DengM,ChenT,SunF:Anintegratedprobabilisticmodelforfunctional
predictionofproteins.JComputBiol2004,11(2–3):463–475.
28. NabievaE,JimK,AgarwalA,ChazelleA,SinghM:Whole-proteome
predictionofproteinfunctionviagraph-theoreticanalysisofinteraction
maps.Bioinformatics2005,21:302–310.
29. ChuaHN,SungWK,WongL:Exploitingindirectneighboursand Submit your next manuscript to BioMed Central
topologicalweighttopredictproteinfunctionfromprotein-protein and take full advantage of:
interactions.Bioinformatics2006,22(13):1623–1630.
30. KingOD,FoulgerRE,DwightSS,WhiteJV,RothFP:Predictinggene
functionfrompatternsofannotation.GenomeRes2003,13(5):896–904. • Convenient online submission
31. BrunC,ChevenetF,MartinD,WojcikJ,GuenocheA,JacqB:Functional • Thorough peer review
classificationofproteinsforthepredictionofcellularfunctionfroma • No space constraints or color figure charges
protein-proteininteractionnetwork.GenomeBiol2003,5(1):R6.
32. HishigakiH,NakaiK,OnoT,TanigamiA,TakagiT:Assessmentofprediction • Immediate publication on acceptance
accuracyofproteinfunctionfromprotein–proteininteractiondata. • Inclusion in PubMed, CAS, Scopus and Google Scholar
Yeast2001,18(6):523–531.
• Research which is freely available for redistribution
33. MnaimnehS,DavierwalaAP,HaynesJ,MoffatJ,PengWT,ZhangW,YangX,
PootoolalJ,ChuaG,LopezA,TrochessetM,MorseD,KroganNJ,HileySL,LiZ,
MorrisQ,GrigullJ,MitsakakisN,RobertsCJ,GreenblattJF,BooneC,KaiserCA, Submit your manuscript at
www.biomedcentral.com/submit
