Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Getting to YES: The Evolution of the University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science (YES) Academy
Joseph C. Ayoob1, Richard D. Boyce2, Solomon Livshits2, Tullia C. Bruno3,14, Greg M. Delgoffe3,14,
Deborah L. Galson4,14, Andrew W. Duncan5,9,14, Jennifer M. Atkinson6,8,14, Steffi Oesterreich6,8,14, Steve Evans10,
Malihe Alikhani11,Tobias A. Baker2, Sheila Pratt12, Kenneth J. DeHaan13, Yuanyuan Chen7, and David N. Boone2,14
Departments of 1Computational and Systems Biology, 2Biomedical Informatics, 3Immunology (Tumor Microenvironment Center and Cancer Immunology and
Immunotherapy Program), 4Medicine (Division of Hematology/Oncology, McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine), 5Pathology (McGowan Institute for
Regenerative Medicine), 6Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, and 7Ophthalmology, and 8Women’s Cancer Research Center and Magee Women’s Research
Institute, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA; Departments of 9Bioengineering, 10Surgery, 11Computer Science, and
12Communication Science and Disorders, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA; 13Department of ASL, Gallaudet University, Washington, DC; and
14UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, Pittsburgh, PA
Keywords: High School Research Program, Mentorship, STEM Outreach, STEM Careers, College Preparation, Broadening Participation, Underrepresented Youth
Publication Date: August 3, 2022
DOI: https://doi.org/10.15695/jstem/v5i2.02
ABSTRACT: The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Hillman Cancer Center Academy (Hillman Academy) has
the primary goal of reaching high school students from underrepresented and disadvantaged backgrounds and guiding them
through a cutting-edge research and professional development experience that positions them for success in STEM. With this
focus, the Hillman Academy has provided nearly 300 authentic mentored research internship opportunities to 239 students
from diverse backgrounds over the past 13 years most of whom matriculated into STEM majors in higher education. These
efforts have helped shape a more diverse generation of future scientists and clinicians, who will enrich these fields with their
unique perspectives and lived experiences. In this paper, we describe our program and the strategies that led to its growth
into a National Institutes of Health Youth Enjoy Science-funded program including our unique multi-site structure, tiered
mentoring platform, multifaceted recruitment approach, professional and academic development activities, and a special
highlight of a set of projects with Deaf and Hard of Hearing students. We also share student survey data from the past six
years that indicate satisfaction with the program, self-perceived gains in key areas of scientific development, awareness of
careers in STEM, and an increased desire to pursue advanced degrees in STEM.
INTRODUCTION
The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) mostly homogeneous clinical and biomedical workforce that
Hillman Cancer Center (HCC) Academy (Hillman Acade- is lacking in diverse perspectives and contributions, fails to
my) mentors and trains high school students, mostly from take advantage of the many benefits seen with diverse teams
underrepresented minority and disadvantaged (URM/DA) and organizations (Cohen et al., 2002; Freeman and Huang,
backgrounds each summer in an immersive, 8-week, can- 2015; Hong and Page, 2004), and exacerbates health dis-
cer-focused, research program complemented with a host of parities in the excluded groups, especially when it comes
professional development and enrichment activities through- to treating diseases like cancer that affect minority and eco-
out the year. These efforts are geared towards increasing nomically disadvantaged individuals at different frequencies
the diversity of the scientific and medical workforces and (SEER, 2017; Singh and Jemal, 2017; Talcott et al., 2007;
addressing the disparities that exist in academia, medicine, Ward et al., 2004).
and for certain diseases such as cancer, which hits URM/ Over the past 13 years, the Hillman Academy has trained
DA communities disproportionately with relatively few 239 URM/DA students, nearly all of whom have gone
members of this community representing the scientists and on to pursue undergraduate degrees. Hillman Academy
physicians who study and treat it. This exclusion has led to a scholars have also had other successes during their time in
Journal of STEM Outreach 1
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
the program and beyond, such as making contributions to PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
published manuscripts, presenting at national conferences, History. The Hillman Academy started in 2009 as a fledgling
and winning state and regional science fairs. The Hillman program started by a small core of faculty who volunteered
Academy itself was recognized with accolades including the their time and resources to train and mentor six students in
Carnegie Science Center Leadership in STEM Education cancer research. It has grown into a joint initiative that spans
award and being named as one of the top 100 global education over a dozen departments at the University of Pittsburgh
innovations by Hundred.org. There are many reasons for (Pitt), UPMC, and the HCC, which are, respectively,
the growth and success of the program, but primary among a Research I University ranked fifth in NIH funding, a
them is the dedication of the faculty and senior trainees who nationally ranked academic healthcare system, and an NCI-
make it their mission to help train and prepare a diverse,
designated comprehensive cancer center. For more than a
next-generation workforce, as well as the strong base of
decade, the Hillman Academy has provided immersive, real-
support from our partners including local schools and
world, research experiences to students in the Pittsburgh
community-based organizations. Funding from individual
Public School (PPS) System and beyond. A major focus of
donors, charitable foundations, and government agencies
these efforts has been to forge relationships with our inner-
were essential in providing the framework and support for
city schools, rural communities, and advocates around the
financially supporting students who are largely left out of
region to connect with youth from URM/DA backgrounds
opportunities like this at the high school level.
and equip and inspire them to enter STEM fields at the
The NIH and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) rec-
undergraduate level, persist in these pursuits, and impact
ognized the disparities in health outcomes, education, and
these fields in which disparities lead to negative outcomes
training efforts and created the Youth Enjoy Science (YES)
for the groups these students represent (Hacker et al., 2017;
program to help train and sponsor educational programs that
Research, 2015; Singh and Jemal, 2017). The Hillman
aim to broaden participation by providing educational and
Academy began in 2009 as an 8-week summer research
hands-on training opportunities to URM/DA students. Other
program with six high school students. Over time, through
federal (ex. NSF, NIH) agencies and foundations (ex. Do-
strong faculty and community support, as well as additional
ris Duke Charitable Foundation, Hillman Foundation, Pitts-
funding by the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation and NCI
burgh Foundation, etc.) have funded similar efforts because
supplements to its P30 Continuing Umbrella of Research
studies demonstrate that impactful research experimentation
Experiences (CURE) program, the Hillman Academy
tethered to mentorship, professional skills development, and
became an integrated program centered on, but not limited
protected learning environments are instrumental to increas-
to, authentic and mentored research experiences that engage
ing the number of UMR/DA students in research and STEM
multiple groups of students: 1) 24+ URM/DA high school
careers (Fung et al. 2021, Kobrak, 1992; Campbell, 1997;
students who are funded to participate in a 2-year-long
Maton et al., 2000; Nakamura and Shernoff, 2009; Kim and
NCI YES program (described in detail below) that includes
Sax, 2011; Noy and Ray, 2011; Toven-Lindsey et al., 2015).
two summer research experiences and two academic-year
With successful internship programs building students’ con-
professional development series, 2) 10–15 URM/DA high
fidence, science identity, research skills, and scientific net-
school students and five alumni undergraduates who are
works (Toven-Lindsey et al., 2015). Publications examining
funded the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation to participate
the impacts of undergraduate internship programs are more
in summer research, and 3) non-URM/DA volunteer
common (Lopatto 2007, Lopatto 2004, Junge et al. 2010),
participants that also participate in the summer research
but examples from high school interventions show similar
program but are not compensated. By participating in many
benefits (Page et al. 2019, Eeds et al. 2014, King et. al 2015))
and literature suggests most students who major in STEM of the same group activities, the students benefit from
make the decision during high school (Norris and Agodoa, interacting with peers from diverse racial, ethnic, academic,
2006) highlighting the importance of precollege STEM pro- and geographical backgrounds that provide a college-like
grams. In this paper, we provide a description of the Hillman experience and large local learning environment. Over the
Academy, focusing on its uniqueness in breadth, size, diver- past 13 years, the Hillman Academy grew considerably
sity of student populations including students from the Deaf (Figure 1) and has trained and mentored 239 URM/DA
and Hard of Hearing community, longevity, recruitment students through 294 paid internship opportunities (some
strategies, assessment, and how we cultivated, evolved, students participate for multiple years), including 60 alone
and expanded our program to ultimately become an NCI in 2021 despite a forced hybrid format due to COVID-19
YES-supported program. More information about the steps restrictions. YES funding has had a significant impact on the
to implement a program like ours was previously described proportion of URM/DA students in the Hillman Academy.
(Livshits, S. and Boone, DN 2020). Other models of YES Prior to YES funding, we could provide financial support to
programs can be found in accompanying articles within this between 20-30 students, which was ~40-50% of the number
special edition. of students in the program (Figure 1 2010-2019). YES
Journal of STEM Outreach 2
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
students. These specific goals, outlined here, are the guiding
pillars of our program.
• Increase the diversity of students who will be prepared
to pursue biomedical cancer research, healthcare, or
other STEM-related careers by providing authentic
and mentored research experiences to URM/DA high
school students.
• Familiarize students with STEM careers options,
particularly those related to cancer care and research,
and equip them with the necessary skills to pursue
them.
• Provide didactic training in cancer biology and related
Figure 1. Growth of the Hillman Academy over time.
fields in six interconnected disciplines.
The number of total students and URM/DA (blue) students
from 2009 to 2021 who participated in the Hillman Academy.
• Enhance scientific writing and speaking skills.
Highlighted in a red box are the years effected by the COVID-19
pandemic where the program was shifted to a remote program in • Reach out to and activate other URM/DA students by
2020 and hybrid program in 2021. Coincidently, these are also the
hosting active learning workshops and discussions for
years of the YES program funding. We held a smaller program in
2020, in which all students were from URM/DA backgrounds. our regional high schools, churches, and community
partners.
funding began in the fall of 2019, and in the two years since
that time, the proportion of URM/DA students was 100% Hillman Academy Overview. All Hillman Academy students
in the pandemic limited 2020 program and ~90% in 2021, participate in a full-time summer research internship of sev-
which included over 50 URM/DA students (Figure 1 2020- en–eight weeks in which they engage in cutting-edge cancer
2021 – red box). We believe the growth in the number of research directed by multiple levels of mentorship, which
participants, as well as applicants, over time speaks to how includes postdoctoral fellows, graduate and undergradu-
the program is embraced by faculty and the community. The ate students, and research personnel in addition to faculty
sustainability and growth of the program is largely attributed members as primary mentors. Students explore a real scien-
to YES funding. YES funding of the Hillman Academy 1) tific question, systematically gather data, make conclusions
doubled the number of URM/DA students we were able based on their interpretation of their data, and present their
to financially support; 2) strengthened partnerships with work at Pitt and beyond. Our program provides interactive
Community-Based Programs by resourcing a community training in key scientific skills, such as how to find, read,
outreach program that makes hands-on STEM offerings to a and discuss scientific literature; conduct research responsi-
broader set of students; 3) provided funded effort for faculty bly and ethically; keep a laboratory notebook; design experi-
leads in 6 different departments, who recruit mentors and ments; use basic statistical approaches to analyze data; write
develop specific didactic material for their department; 4) clearly; and present research effectively. We also strive to
provided resources for the logistics necessary to host a large exclude practices that discourage URM/DA students such
number of URM/DA students such as housing, bus fares, as extensive, abstract, and non-relatable courses taught from
shuttle service, laptops, etc.; and 5) provided the materials textbooks with difficult exams (Toven-Lindsey et al., 2015).
and reagents necessary for the large number of faculty hosts With the help of their mentors, Hillman Academy students
to engage students in authentic research. lead a journal club presentation to their peers on a paper rel-
evant to their research question and also engage one anoth-
Program Goals and Overview. While the Hillman er through routine research roundtables at which students
Academy as a whole provides the same integrated summer pose and justify their research question to a group of peers
research experience for all groups of participants, students and provide updates on their progress over their two-year
in the YES program participate in an additional year of sum- tenure. The Hillman Academy also hosts a variety of guest
mer research and two years of an academic-year enrichment lecturers—with an emphasis of scientists from similar back-
program (described below) that builds off of the eight-week grounds as the students—to expose the students to a broad
summer research experience. The goals of the Hillman array of scientists, STEM careers, and paths to success. The
Academy are outlined below. end of each Hillman Academy summer program culminates
in a symposium of oral presentations by all the students to
Hillman Academy Goals. The Hillman Academy has set their peers, mentors, laboratory colleagues, family members,
several educational and outreach goals for the benefit of our and teachers. Additionally, they present a poster on their
Journal of STEM Outreach 3
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
work in the atrium of the HCC during a competitive poster Finally, those with lower education were 5 times more likely
session, which is open to all the members of Pitt, UPMC, to rate their health as fair or poor compared with the more
HCC, and the local community. For 2020 and 2021 only, affluent (Hacker et al., 2017). Likewise, due to the closing
the symposium was hosted via Zoom because of pandemic of steel mills and coal mines, which were the major indus-
restrictions. The recordings of the student presentations are tries for decades outside of Pittsburgh, communities in the
available on our YouTube channel (https://www.youtube. Monongahela Valley and surrounding communities (with-
com/channel/UCC_n1kISicItwgeo64LcDSg/videos). in 60 miles of HCC) have become older and poorer with a
high incidence of drug use disorder. For example, in Fayette
Additional Programming for YES Students. While all County and Monessen City, nearly 40% of the 60,000 house-
Hillman Academy students participate in the summer holds make less than 2 times the poverty limit, which is
research experience, students accepted into the YES twice that of state and national averages (Program in Urban
program participate in an additional summer research and Regional Analysis, 2015). The educational opportunities
experience as well as two academic-year professional for these students are minimal. Thus, the HCC is located at
development programs. The goal of the academic-year YES the intersection of two major populations of students under-
curriculum is to complement and build upon the summer represented in biomedical science – students of color and
research experience. Throughout the year, we meet once per students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
month as a group and as often as necessary with individual Our approach to recruit a diverse group of URM/DA
students to both equip them with a host of essential scientific
students into the Hillman Academy includes i) direct com-
communication and professional development skills and
munication with program alumni, local students, teachers,
work with them to translate their research into competitive
counselors, administrators, principals, superintendents, in-
scientific papers, abstracts, and scholarship applications.
termediate units, and others in the PPS System, ii) outreach
All students apply to a minimum of two science fairs or
at schools, community centers, churches, and throughout our
conferences with the guidance of their mentors and program
surrounding area, and iii) networking with our local and re-
directors. In summary, the Hillman Academy including
gional partners that are focused on educational equity with an
the YES-portion of the program provides students with
extensive reach into diverse communities and schools (Lori
immersive experiences using documented approaches that
Delale-O’Connor et al., 2021). This multifaceted approach
increase the likelihood of URM/DA students pursuing and
has led to a diverse group of students from most populations
persisting in the sciences. In other words, they learn how
that are underrepresented in the biomedical workforce (Fig-
to be a scientist by being a scientist in an immersive and
supportive environment.
Student Recruitment and Hillman Academy
Students. The HCC is in the heart of Pittsburgh and less
than five miles from all nine PPS high schools. In addition to
this urban center, the area that the HCC serves also includes
rural Pennsylvania and the upper portions of Appalachia, an
impoverished region with very large health disparities and a
high percentage of DA students. The total enrollment of PPS
is over 24,000 students, with approximately 63% of students
from Black, Hispanic, or American Indian populations, and
62% from low-income families. Only 70% of PPS students
graduate, and as a group, PPS students perform considerably
worse than the state average on standardize testing (Council
of the Great City Schools, 2016). Further, the communities
these students call home suffer from health disparities that
Figure 2. Recruitment of a diverse program. A)
directly increase their risk of cancer morbidity and mortality Demographic proportions of URM/DA students (N = 239) over
(Hacker et al., 2017). Nearly 50% of all black women do the past 13 years. Note that students only need to self-identify
in one of these categories and can chose not to answer other
not receive annual mammograms, and a significantly higher
demographic questions. This means that some students may
percentage of black adults versus white adults, 30% versus qualify under more than one category, but for visualization
17%, respectively, reported that they are current smokers. purposes are only listed once. B) Demographics of all of the
Hillman Academy YES students. All Non-Hispanic White
Black adults are also 9% more likely to be overweight or
or Asian Americans either have a disability or come from a
obese than white adults, and 22% more black adults are wor- disadvantaged background. C) Number of applications from
ried about feeding their families compared with white adults. URM/DA students in each year of the program.
Journal of STEM Outreach 4
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
ure 2A and B). The NIH defines URM/DA students as US ested students. Remake Learning—the Pittsburgh Regional
citizens or permanent residents who identify as 1) Black or STEM Ecosystem, the Allegheny County Intermediate Unit,
African American, Hispanic or Latino/a, American Indian or the Pittsburgh Promise, the Pennsylvania Biology Teachers
Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander, 2) indi- Network, and others send information to their contacts di-
viduals with disabilities as described in the Americans with rectly and through social media. Finally, the Western Penn-
Disabilities Act of 1990, or 3) those from disadvantaged sylvania School for the Deaf, a non-profit, tuition-free school
background (U.S. Department of Health and Human Ser- founded in 1869, serves Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing students
vices, 2019). To be supported by our NIH or DDCF awards, from all of Pennsylvania and is less than five miles from the
the students must self-report to us at least one way they are HCC. We directly recruit from this school and send flyers
underrepresented. Through our 13 years, approximately 57% and videos we produced using American Sign Language to
of our students qualified based on race/ethnicity, with 36% all Deaf High Schools throughout the country.
qualifying based on income levels, and 7% based on disabil-
ity (Figure 2A). The proportions of Black students and stu- Research Experience. The main focus of all Hillman
dents with disabilities are significantly enriched in the NCI Academy is to provide students with a full-time, eight-week,
YES student portion of our program that encompasses only authentic research experience. Each student has an individ-
2020 and 2021— 49% Black (Figure 2B) and 16% students ual research project completed under their own mentor team
with disabilities—in YES vs 28% Black and 7% disabilities typically composed of a faculty member and a graduate or
in the total URM/DA alumni population. This is a result of medical student or postdoctoral fellow. In collaboration with
increased funding, community partnerships, and intentional the Pitt Center for Mentoring, we have held mentor train-
recruiting practices engaging these populations of students. ing sessions for faculty and student mentors who work with
Our recruitment efforts are primarily in Pittsburgh and our students. Since launching in 2009, we have developed
its surrounding areas and rely on relationships deliberately six research sites, each with a distinct research focus and
forged over the past six years. We organize 15–20 events and a curriculum tailored to that focus, across Pitt’s two-mile
talks at local schools, community events, and for community wide campus (Table 1). While the composition of each site
partners per year. Since we placed more of an emphasis on varies—it can be a single department, a specialized research
recruiting through community partnerships in 2016, we saw center, or multiple departments—all sites have a central hub
a steady annual increase in the number of URM/DA students for activities as well as a unique research identity. A sev-
applying and the number has tripled over the past 5 years enth site in ophthalmology will be added in 2022 after a pi-
(Figure 2C). For several of our partners, we started a guar- lot year in 2021. Each research site has a faculty member
anteed admissions process after the beginning of YES fund- lead who serves to recruit mentors within their departments/
ing in 2019. As an example, we guarantee admission to PPS centers, organize a local educational team, review appli-
students that are highly recommended by trusted teachers cations, and develop and implement a curriculum tailored
and school administrators, who are integral partners of our to the students of that site. The creation of individual sites
program. These identified students will still complete an ap- with distinct research approaches was the key to expansion
plication, and their applications will be flagged in our system of the Hillman Academy over time as it has allowed for a
to notify the admissions teams that they have already been snowballing effect of mentor recruiting. The distributed site
accepted into the program. In addition, we reach out and model has also diversified the research projects and provided
give talks directly to students in many of their classrooms, students more choice in how they can engage in research.
to all students taking AP classes at PPS, and to students in Finally, individual sites create small learning environments
the Pittsburgh Public Schools Black Student Union. We also of around 10 students. Though students are working on in-
have guaranteed admission to a subset of students from com- dividual projects, this format enables them to engage in di-
munity partners including the Fund for Advancement of Mi- dactic and other enrichment activities in small groups, which
norities through Education (FAME) and the Homeless Chil- facilitates collaboration and cohort building while avoiding
dren’s Education Fund (HCEF). We host events on campus the risk of isolation. Students also benefit from integration
for students and meet in groups or with individual families into the larger social network that is formed by the compos-
in-person or remotely to discuss opportunities through the ite of the six sites under the umbrella of the entire program.
Hillman Academy’s YES program. The Jack Kent Cooke The six areas of research are explained on our website to
Foundation, which has the goal of advancing the educa- applicants, who rank the sites in order of preference. Every
tion of exceptionally promising students who have financial effort is made to assign students to one of their two top sites
need, also partners with us to recruit guaranteed admit stu- upon acceptance into the program. Students remain at the
dents each year. assigned site throughout the eight weeks of each summer
Our recruitment strategy also engages our many partners research experience along with students from the DDCF and
to amplify the opening of the application to potentially inter- the HCC volunteer program, creating truly diverse cadres
Journal of STEM Outreach 5
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Table 1. The 6 Research Sites of the Hillman Academy and Their Scientific Foci.
Research Site (Year Established)
Site Leader Research Site Foci Research Site Syllabus
Location
• Key concepts in cancer biology
Cancer Biology (CB) Site (2009) Oncogenes, cell signaling & growth factors, disordered • Cancer research topics
Deborah Galson, PhD mitochondrial mechanisms, inflammation, tumor • Cancer metabolism
Hillman Cancer Center microenvironment, tissue invasion/metastasis • Experimental protocols
• Lab skills for cancer biologists
Tech Drive X – formerly Cancer Environment,
• Cell division
Bioengineering, Imaging, Genetics Site (2015)
• Cancer stem cells
Andrew Duncan, PhD Cellular & organismal environment (internal & external),
• Signaling & cell death
Microbiology & Molecular Genetics imaging, genetics on the onset & progression of cancer
• Extracellular matrix
McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine
• Classic cancer papers
Orthopedic Surgery
• Molecular biology of cancer
Computer Sciences, Biology, Biomedical Informatics
Cancer genomic & proteomic data mining, • Cancer informatics
(CoSBBI) Site (2011)
pharmacogenomics, image analysis, clinical informatics, • Precision medicine
David Boone, PhD (Hillman Academy Director)
machine learning, and other computational techniques • Machine learning
Biomedical Informatics
• Cancer clinical data
• Cancer genomics
Computational Biology (CompBio) (2013)
Computational structural biology, in vitro & in silico • Drug discovery
Joseph Ayoob, PhD (Associate Academy Director)
drug discovery, computational pathology, bioinformatics, • Cancer systems biology
Computational and Systems Biology
systems biology • Cancer bioimaging
Pitt Drug Discovery Institute
• Structural biology
• Cells & cancer
Immunology and Cancer Immunotherapy (ICI) Site (2013) • Tumor immunology
Basic concepts in immunology, cancer immunology,
Greg Delgoffe, PhD and Tullia Bruno, PhD • Immunologist toolbox
cancer immunotherapy
Immunology • Immunosurveillance
• Cancer evasion of T cells
• Breast cancer biology
Women’s Cancer Research Center (WCRC) Site (2011) • Ovarian cancer
Breast & ovarian cancer projects in cell lines, animal
Steffi Oesterreich, PhD (Past Academy Director) • Molecular biologist toolbox
models, & patient samples
Magee-Womens Research Institute • Molecular therapeutics
• Breast cancer pathology
of students in an integrated and specialized learning envi- genomic or clinical research on datasets provided by their
ronment. The students work a full-time schedule of about mentoring teams to determine if machine learning can aid
35 hours per week in their assigned labs or research groups clinical decisions on what targeted therapy patients should
when not engaged with the summer curriculum. In the sec-
ond year, YES students, who participate in two consecutive Table 2. Variety of Student Research Projects – Examples by Site.
summer research experiences, have the option to return to Site Two Example Projects in 2021
the same site for a deeper research experience or to attend • The microbiome is required for intestinal regeneration after
radiation injury
a different site for exposure to a new curriculum, mentor, CB
• Overcoming resistance to MET tyrosine kinase inhibitors
and research project. The research groups at each site are though TWIST1 inhibition
equipped with resources and facilities that provide students • Identifying whether p53/cep-1 plays a role in lipid
metabolism in a cell-autonomous or nonautonomous manner
with the opportunity to complete an authentic cutting-edge TDX
• Neuromuscular electrical stimulation affects extracellular
research project in a variety of specialized areas of basic, vesicle characteristics in a murine model of aging
translational, or clinical cancer investigation. All projects • Predicting the Composite Outcome of Chronic Pain Patients
Using Machine Learning
are chosen by the mentor to be something related to ongoing CoSBBI
• Sonic Hedgehog Pathway Upregulation in Bone Metastasis
research within their lab. Sometimes students are provided of Breast Cancer
with a list of projects, and they choose which is of interest • Extracting Symptoms via Natural Language Processing from
to them, but for others they are given a single project from Emergency Department Nursing Notes in Suspected Acute
CompBio Coronary Syndrome Patients with a History of Cancer
their mentor. Our multi-site structure provides a wide option • Using Incremental Potential Contact (IPC) for
of the types of research projects. Table 2 lists two example Computational Simulations of Urogynecological Mesh
projects from each site in 2021. Some students will work in • TNFR2 Expression on BRAF-Mutated Melanomas Mediates
TNF-Driven Resistance to MAPK Pathway Inhibitors
wet labs spending their summer pipetting and conducting ICI
• Tumor Interstitial Fluid Media Desensitizes CD8 T Cells to
cell and molecular biology experiments such as CRISPR, TCR Stimulation
PCR, proliferation assays (Figure 3, left – images of stu- • Role of endometriosis-associated mesenchymal stem cells
in regulating local iron homeostasis in ovarian clear cell
dents working in labs) perhaps studying the impact of a gene
WCRC carcinoma
knockout on proliferation of cancer cells. Others will learn • An Open-Label Study of the Apollo Device for Fatigue in
Metastatic Breast Cancer
how to program in R or Python and conduct computational
Journal of STEM Outreach 6
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Figure 3. Images of students taking part in Hillman Academy activities. Hillman Academy High School Students working
in the lab (two left panels), taking part in a discussion following the “Diversity Shuffle” hosted by the Office of Health Sciences
Diversity (third from left), and presenting research at a symposium (right).
receive. The students are always under close supervision, abstract, and prepare the students for their final presentations
but by the end of the summer acquire varied levels of inde- and beyond. First-year Hillman Academy students get the
pendence depending on the student, mentor, and ethical and added benefit of interacting with second-year Hillman Acad-
safety concerns of the project. emy students in the YES program as well as Hillman Acad-
emy alumni who are now undergraduates and returning to
Tiered Mentoring Structure. The Hillman Academy complete research during the summer. This gives all Hillman
uses a multi-level mentoring structure as outlined in Figure Academy students the opportunity to serve in a leadership
4. We engage highly motivated and NIH- and NSF-funded role within the program and adds another layer of near-peer
mentors to serve as research advisors and mentors for our mentors for new students who may require more attention
students. Each student is placed into a research lab based and support.
on their indicated interest in their application. The breadth A broader mentoring layer is provided by the six research
of the Hillman Academy across multiple sites and with over site leaders, who all have at least five years of leadership
200 unique participating faculty mentors allows for the stu- and mentoring experience from prior Hillman Academy co-
dents’ interests to drive their research experience, facilitat- horts. Site leaders organize the active-learning site-specific
ing project ownership. curricula, and both facilitate and monitor communication
In addition to the primary faculty member, most Hillman between students and mentors. Site-specific curricula are
Academy students have at least one near-peer mentor, who is carried out by an additional set of graduate student and post-
typically a graduate or medical student, postdoctoral fellow, doctoral mentors that we call our educational team. Lastly,
or research specialist. The near-peer mentors teach students the program leadership is yet another layer of mentorship.
basic research skills, guide their daily research, assist with The leadership team (Program Director, Associate Director,
understanding primary literature articles, aid in writing an and Program Coordinator) is the first to communicate with
students and maintains continuous communication during
and for years after the program to provide advice, guidance,
and support.
Orientation to Research. On the first day of the summer
research program, all students meet for orientation. Here,
students participate in a program that includes mandatory
safety and responsible conduct of research training sessions,
including blood-borne pathogen and chemical hygiene safe-
ty training, proper experimental record keeping, and respon-
sible data management, that prepare them for work in a lab
or research group. There is also an overview of program
expectations, general guidelines for success in the program,
introductions of the six site leaders and their research sites,
and “icebreaker” activities to familiarize students with pro-
Figure 4. Tiered mentoring structure. A diagram of the gram leaders and mentors and foster an engaged and sup-
numerous mentoring and collaborative interactions among portive local learning environment. Finally, during the first
Hillman Academy students (red), faculty and program leadership
week of the program, we offer workshop sessions based on
(yellow), near-peer mentors, and educational teams which
primarily consist of graduate students and postdoctoral fellows the Entering Research (Balster et al., 2010; Branchaw et al.,
(blue). 2020) curriculum that actively engage students in conversa-
Journal of STEM Outreach 7
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Table 3. Entering Research Training Activities and Areas of Trainee streamed through YouTube to allow students outside of the
Development.
Hillman Academy to benefit as well. To build on this, we are
Activities Areas of Trainee Development now partnering with PPS to bring these talks to classrooms
Constructive/ • Equity and Inclusion Awareness and Skills to expose students to scientific and clinical role models who
Destructive Group • Researcher Identity
Behaviors Research • Research Comprehension and Communication come from similar backgrounds. Additional enrichment ac-
Experience Reflections Skills tivities throughout the summer include a weekly keynote
• Research Comprehension and Communication speaker series in which students from all sites come together
Skills
Aligning Mentor and • Equity and Inclusion Awareness and Skills to explore a variety of professional development topics in-
Trainee Expectations
• Researcher Confidence, Independence, and cluding but not limited to:
Mentor Biography
Identity Professional and Career Development
Skills
• Diversity Awareness, led by the Assistant Vice
Challenges Facing Chancellor for Health Science Diversity
• Equity and Inclusion Awareness and Skills
Diverse Teams
• Leadership and Purpose, led by the Coro Institute
• Research Confidence and Independence
Case Study: • Professional and Career Development Skills • Basics of Effective Science Communication, led by
Overwhelmed • Research Comprehension and Communication
the Pitt Center for Teaching and Learning
Skills
Fostering Research • Researcher Confidence, Independence, and • Mindfulness, led by a therapist at the University’s
Self-Efficacy Identity
Stress-Free Zone
tions about common concerns and barriers for those enter- • Introduction to MD/PhD programs, led by the Pitt
ing research along with strategies for bolstering self-efficacy Medical Scientist Training Program Director
and success (Table 3). These sessions are taught by a Master
• Discussion about financial aid and college admissions,
Facilitator of the Entering Research Training materials that
led by the Pitt Admissions Office and the former
are made available through the Center for the Improvement
Director of College Counseling at Collegewise.
of Mentored Experiences in Research (CIMER).
• STEM education and career experiences from a
Scientific Skills Curriculum. Much of the summer cur- student perspective, led by Hillman Academy alumni
riculum focuses on teaching scientific skills. All students • Maintaining a CV and LinkedIn profile, led by Hillman
attend workshops at their research sites with small group in- Academy staff
struction and peer–peer learning on how to effectively find,
read, organize, and discuss research papers for a journal club We value the transition from secondary to post-second-
and how to give high-quality oral and poster presentations. ary education as a critical development in the lives of our
The small-group format is also used for research roundta- students. To facilitate this, we hold a session in which staff
ble discussions where each student discusses their research from the Admissions and Financial Aid Departments of Pitt
project every one to two weeks with other students at their discuss the programs and resources available at the universi-
site. Outside of the basic scientific skills curriculum, each of ty. We also connect students with the former Director of Col-
the six research sites has a customized syllabus with didac- lege Counseling at Collegwise to learn application strategies
tic sessions on topics relevant to the site’s area of research and have one-on-one editing of college essays. In addition to
(Table 1). Additionally, students have the option to tour key this formal approach to college preparation, we host specific
facilities, including the Pitt Zebrafish Facility, Pitt Flow Cy- meetings for students to regularly interface with the under-
tometry Facility, Center for Biologic Imaging, and UPMC graduate and graduate students within the Hillman Academy
operating rooms. network to provide guidance on how to navigate the next
steps of their academic journey. For instance, summer un-
Professional and Academic Development. Curricu- dergraduate students and graduate students in the Depart-
lum. While most of the students’ academic and professional ment of Computational and Systems Biology, which hous-
development occurs in a laboratory setting under the super- es the CompBio Site, host meetings between these groups
vision of their mentors, we engage all students as a group in during the summer.
several enrichment activities that promote career awareness,
college readiness, and peer engagement (Figure 3, middle). Summer Research Symposium. Each summer re-
Each student attends a series of spotlight discussions/semi- search experience of the Hillman Academy culminates in
nars in which accomplished and diverse professionals in re- oral presentations at each research site (Figure 3, right) and
search and clinical fields talk with students about the work at an HCC-wide poster session that serves as students’ fore-
that they do and their career paths. In the virtual and hy- most opportunity to exhibit their research and communica-
brid settings of 2020 and 2021, most of these talks were live tion skills and expand their network in the Pitt/UPMC/HCC
Journal of STEM Outreach 8
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
community. Posters are visited by Pitt/UPMC/HCC faculty willing and interested to engage in that way. Students were
and lab personnel, as well as community partners, parents, paired with mentoring teams that were enthusiastic to work
and friends. Unfortunately, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, remotely with the students. A technology survey was sent to
final presentations in 2020 and 2021 were held via Zoom. each student, and we provided laptops and internet access to
The talks of all students are available on our YouTube chan- those in need. One-on-one mentorship occurred via Zoom
nel. between the students and faculty/trainee teams full-time for
seven weeks. Additionally, we hosted all didactic and profes-
Academic Year Engagement. In addition to the summer sional development activities through Zoom and connected
research experiences, students who are accepted into the the students socially through Discord. We also constructed
YES program participate in an academic-year professional a team of eight Hillman Academy alumni that were in col-
development program in two consecutive years. Since many lege to help build social capital and provide advice through
students have multiple responsibilities during the school the summer via the Discord server. Furthermore, a team of
year, including homework, sports, music, jobs, and family 10 individuals with strong computational background were
obligations, we created a curriculum during the academic employed to serve as coding teaching assistants who host-
year that is primarily asynchronous and focused on student- ed office hours throughout the summer and were also in the
generated content related to their summer projects and an Discord server. The intent was to replace the constant access
extension of their final presentations. For example, we require to graduate students and postdocs that the students would
all students to apply to two science fairs or symposia per year. normally have if they were in-person. We also increased the
Research demonstrates that students who compete in science
number of lectures and other activities to maintain signifi-
fairs are more likely to complete a STEM major than those
cant contact with the students and the Program Director and
who do not, even when controlling for prior STEM interest
Coordinator scheduled weekly check-ins with all students.
and college readiness, and students who participate in more
The summer ended with each student giving a 10-minute talk
than one science fair are even more likely to persist in STEM
on their work after being introduced by their mentor. This
(Miller et al., 2017; Sahin et al., 2017). Since our academic-
event, which was open to the public, was held on Zoom and
year program is still in its first few years and all within the
broadcasted more broadly on our YouTube page. More in-
COVID-19 pandemic, it is premature to examine data from
formation about the pivot to virtual programming including
YES students to determine if that finding holds. However,
assessment data was reported elsewhere (Fung et al. 2021).
competing in these fairs provides a platform to discuss their
The ongoing pandemic impacted us again in the summer
work with other scientists and be a part of the larger scientific
of 2021. We were permitted to have students in labs, but be-
community. Program Directors mentor students through the
cause of University of Pittsburgh regulations, were not al-
science fair process by giving workshops about once a month
lowed to host in-person meetings with the students and could
on how to write about and present their projects. They also
not use university housing. Because of this, we pivoted once
work directly with students and mentors to provide critical
again to a hybrid program. Traditional wet-lab research in-
feedback on student compositions. Several of our students
ternships were conducted as they were prior to the pandemic
have won prizes at these fairs.
with each student commuting to their host mentor’s lab each
Students are compensated for their work in the academic-
day. All computational projects were conducted remotely as
year program like they are for their summer research.
outlined above during 2020. As always, all students were
Additionally, all students who do not have a laptop are given
paired with mentoring teams that met either in-person or vir-
a loaner for the duration of the program. The loaner laptops
tually through Zoom. Remote students in 2020 ranked our
are loaded with all necessary software for videoconferencing
group talks and events higher than in any previous year. In
and designing presentations. We also purchase network cards
response, we hosted a one-hour talk, social, or professional
for students that do not have reliable internet access in their
development event each day of the seven-week program. We
homes and bus passes when needed to attempt to remove
asked the students performing research remotely to attend
barriers that might hinder students from participating in the
daily to build cohesion but permitted students that were in
program.
labs to attend only two of the events per week to maximize
their time in lab (which we know from previous years is the
Virtual and Hybrid Programming in 2020–2021.
most important aspect of the program). All events happened
The COVID-19 pandemic shut down labs throughout the
via Zoom and when the speakers agreed, these events were
University of Pittsburgh. Although dramatically impacted,
recorded and posted to our public YouTube channel. Once
computational research continued. Thus, we pivoted from
again, the students presented final talks at seven concurrent
our normal structure of six research sites on campus and
Zoom sessions, most of which are available on our YouTube
instead leaned on our strengths in computational research
channel.
projects to provide a remote mentoring setting for students
Journal of STEM Outreach 9
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Highlighted Work with Deaf or Hard of Hearing Including Deaf/HoH students requires special recruiting
Students. At the Hillman Academy, we attempt to use and preparation. One of the first activities to recruit is to create
culturally responsive pedagogy and provide students with and send by email, social media, and mail a promotional flyer
opportunities to learn about or engage in research that that includes links to an informational video in ASL and to
affects them and their community. As an example, here, we the program’s website and application. The team also works
highlight the work of our Deaf and Hard of Hearing (Deaf/ closely with the Office of Disability Resources and Services
HoH) students and their mentors in our YES program. at Pitt to schedule ASL interpreters for all didactic sessions
People who identify as Deaf/HoH are highly underrep- during the summer and ensure all facilities have appropriate
resented in research (Lynn et al., 2020). For example, only accommodations. Mentors whose first language is English
1.3% of the 39,435 doctorates awarded in 2017 went to work out a mentor–mentee meeting schedule in advance
people who were Deaf/HoH (Jackal, 2019; National Center of the program to ensure that there is adequate interpreter
for Science and Engineering Statistics, 2019). Moreover, of coverage. However, for the first time in 2021, two Deaf
those doctorates to Deaf/HoH adults, only 40% were earned students worked with mentors from Gallaudet University
in life sciences, physical sciences, or engineering compared who were Deaf themselves or teach primarily in ASL. We
to 78% of the doctorates to hearing individuals (Solomon did learn from this experience that interpreters should still
CM, 2012). Deaf/HoH students face significant obstacles to be included within these workgroups so that the interpreters
advancing in STEM, including issues in accommodations, can learn about the research to effectively voice for the Deaf
self-advocacy, and establishment of a support system (List- students in group activities with hearing individuals. Finally,
man and Dingus-Eason, 2018; Madhusoodanan, 2016; Solo- the team invites scientists from Deaf/HoH communities
mon, 2012). The extent to which these obstacles present bar- to give keynote talks to all students in the program. These
riers varies greatly because Deaf/HoH students are highly scientists also meet directly with the Deaf/HoH students for
diverse in many respects, including the etiology of deafness, a career-focused discussion.
possible benefits of auditory interventions, necessary expo- While the Deaf/HoH students have worked on a vari-
sure and acquisition to American Sign Language (ASL) and ety of topics, one project that has been advanced by these
English, and access to accommodations (Solomon, 2012). students each year is a prototype learning aid designed for
Deaf/HoH students whose primary language is ASL with Deaf/HoH students to use while reading scientific content on
a natural interest and acumen in science and math may face a web page or watching a video. Figure 5 shows screenshots
challenges in these disciplines where English is the dom- of the working prototype and features designed to reduce
inant language. Students are often not given the opportu- language obstacles that Deaf/HoH face when attempting to
nity to become bilingual by learning the English language learn from scientific content written in English. The tool is
through age-appropriate instruction starting at a young age. a web browser plug-in that presents the user with ASL vid-
This limits the students’ access to information in English and eos and pictures expanding on science jargon in English.
reduces confidence and the ability to develop independent The primary feature of the tool is that certain English words
learning skills in science that are needed to advance skills in within the material are highlighted and clickable. Clicking
research. These challenges are exacerbated due to the nation- on a highlighted word updates a pane on the bottom of the
al shortage of interpreters, and specifically, the lack of sign web page that will show 1) a short and carefully written En-
language interpreters who specialize in certain disciplines glish definition, 2) one or more images about the concept
with specific jargon. Also, there are relatively few signing that the word is about, and 3) a brief ASL video that finger
teachers of science, and many science teachers are unaware spells the word and summarizes the concept. Prior work by
of appropriate methods for teaching Deaf/HoH students students on the prototype has demonstrated proof of concept
The Hillman Academy YES program has sought to ad- for the technology. Currently the study team consisting of a
dress these obstacles to the advancement of future Deaf/HoH Deaf Gallaudet undergraduate and a Deaf Hillman Academy
scientists by bringing together experts in Deaf studies, arti- YES program alumnus is conducting a formative evaluation
ficial intelligence, communication science, and biomedical of the approach to test if its use is associated with an increase
informatics from both Pitt and Gallaudet University, which in the accuracy of answers to Advanced Placement Biology
specifically caters to Deaf/HoH students. The collaboration questions by Deaf students.
began in 2018 with the goal of increasing the inclusion of
Deaf/HoH students in biomedical science. Since 2018, the
program has involved a total of ten high school students who EVALUATION
identify as Deaf/HoH. Two students have returned for mul- Over the past 13 years, the Hillman Academy has provid-
tiple years and one student is continuing to receive research ed 294 paid internships to 239 URM/DA students. In addi-
mentorship from faculty on the Hillman Academy team as tion to these URM/DA students, the Academy has also pro-
an undergraduate at the University of Pittsburgh. vided an additional 286 unpaid internships to 267 students
Journal of STEM Outreach 10
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
alumni. While this evidence suggests the Hillman Academy
at least perpetuates an interest in STEM leading to the high
proportion of students in these majors, we are cautious in our
interpretations. A formal causal evaluation of the longitudi-
nal impact of the Hillman Academy on persistence in
STEM is ongoing and will be reported in a future publica-
tion after more Hillman Academy students progress into,
through, and beyond undergraduate education.
In addition to the longitudinal assessment, we assess the
summer research component each year using a modified pre/
post survey (King et al., 2017) adapted from two published
sources—the Summer Undergraduate Research Experience
(SURE) and one used by the School for Science and Math
at Vanderbilt (Eeds et al., 2014; Lopatto, 2004, 2007). These
surveys are administered online through Qualtrics, are anon-
ymous, and are completed before the start of the summer
program and during/after the end of the research sympo-
sium. Each question can be skipped if a student chooses
not to answer, and the post survey includes some questions
with a ‘retro-pre’ evaluation of the student where they are
asked to rate themselves at the beginning of the program
now that they have had the experience. This has been used
by others (Nimon et al., 2011) as students often overesti-
mate themselves before educational experiences. We saw
similar results that retro-pre ratings were often lower than
Figure 5. Prototype of visual learning aid designed with true pre ratings and therefore rely on the retro-pre in this
Deaf and Hard of Hearing students. A) A prototype visual
analysis. Given the vast changes in programming due to the
learning aid (University of Pittsburgh Invention Disclosure
Number: 04688.2018) designed to reduce language obstacles that COVID-19 pandemic that began just a few months after the
Deaf and Hard of Hearing face when attempting to learn from starts of our YES program, we are hesitant to make sweeping
scientific content written in English. The tool is a web browser
judgements based strictly on these surveys. To increase the
plug-in that presents the user with highly visual explanations
(pictures and ASL videos) of science and English words. In this sample size, here we report results of a similar survey ad-
panel, the tool is enhancing a Wikipedia page about Punnett ministered to all URM/DA Hillman Academy students since
squares after the user has selected the word ‘dominant.’ A video
2016.
of information or the word finger spelled in American Sign Lan-
guage (ASL) populates the lower right quadrant. B) This panel At the Hillman Academy, we hope to provide authentic
shows proof-of-concept for enhancing online video content with research experiences and career development opportunities
additional visual explanations. In this case, the tool is enhancing
to clarify what a scientist is, what a scientist does, and how
a YouTube video about the genetic code and the user has selected
‘amino acids.’ Again, information and/or finger spelling in ASL is to become a scientist, in order to broaden participation in the
provided. biomedical workforce. Of the 163 URM/DA students that
responded to the surveys, 96% reported that their idea of a
from non-URM/DA backgrounds. Many of these URM/
career scientist was clearer after the Hillman Academy with
DA scholars now attend highly selective universities and
over 83% stating they have a ‘good’ or ‘very clear’ idea of
colleges including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Stanford, and
what a scientist is. The students were asked, both before and
MIT. Excitingly, approximately 90% of URM/DA Hillman
after the program, about what their plans were after under-
Academy alumni with known and declared majors are in
grad. The largest changes were an increase in ‘pursuing a
STEM fields, including biological sciences, chemistry, en-
PhD in a STEM field’ and a decrease in ‘undecided’ or ‘have
gineering, and pre-medicine. Of the 182 underrepresented
not considering grad school (Table 4 – highlighted in red).’
Hillman Academy alumni that have graduated high school,
Moreover, 94% of students said they are ‘likely’ or ‘very
we know that at least 176 matriculated into higher education. likely’ to seek another research experience. Together these
Of the 164 underrepresented Hillman Academy alumni that results suggest the Hillman Academy is successful at influ-
we know have declared a major, 151, or 92%, are in STEM encing students plans to pursue paths leading to career sci-
or healthcare-related fields. This excludes fields considered entists. Importantly, these numbers were very similar during
STEM by the NSF such as Political Science, Economics, and the pandemic-influenced programs (Table 4 left vs right). In
Sociology which are most of the majors of the “non-STEM” 2020, the Hillman Academy was held completely virtually.
Journal of STEM Outreach 11
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Table 4. Students’ self-reported plans for after college demonstrate an nothing’ to ’10 - I am an expert’ on a series of skills import-
increase in desire to pursue a PhD in STEM. ant to becoming a scientist. Positive gains were reported in
What are your plans Total 2020-2021 all areas with the largest gain in mean change per student
after college? N = 160 N = 63
(> 2.61 +/- 0.18) seen in the categories of ‘communicating
retro-pre % post % retro-pre % post %
with scientists using a scientific vocabulary,’ ‘gathering and
PhD in STEM 24.4 32.5 28.6 41.3
organizing data through the use of scientific tools and tech-
Have not considered
nology,’ and ‘critically analyzing the quality of data gener-
grad school OR 12.5 2.5 7.9 1.6
Undecided ated in my own research’ (Table 5). The only appreciable
Medical Degree 40.0 43.1 41.3 39.7 difference between the 2016–2019 cohorts and the pandemic
Masters in STEM 15.6 15.6 15.9 12.7 2020–2021 cohorts was a larger gain in ‘using software to
Grad School in create scientific models to make predictions.’ This is likely
3.1 3.8 1.6 3.2
Non-STEM
due to an increased proportion of students completing com-
Other responses 4.4 2.5 4.8 1.6
putational projects given that all students in 2020 and half of
On an anonymous survey conducted via Qualtrics at the end of the summer
research internship, students were asked to reflect on their plans for after college the students in 2021 engaged in computational research, but
before the internship (retro-pre) and after (post). “Total” column is all URM/DA
only 33–40% in the pre-pandemic cohorts.
students that completed these questions from 2016-2021. “2020-2021” column
is URM/DA students for those 2 years to examine the effect of programmatic When we asked the students about their experience in
changes due to the pandemic. Reported are the percentages. Highlighted in red
are the largest differences between retro-pre and post. the Hillman Academy and to rate different components, they
overwhelmingly indicated that working with their mentor is
The students still completed authentic research projects un-
the most rewarding and important part of the program. 96%
der the mentorship of faculty and trainees, but only in com-
of students rated working with their mentor as a 4 or 5 on a
putational projects that could be completed entirely remotely.
Likert scale of ‘1 - Useless’ to ‘5 - Very Useful’. This was
In 2021, the Hillman Academy was a hybrid program where
clear from themes extracted from open-ended questions as
half of the students were in labs on campus and the other
well. The second highest rated component of the program
half completed their computational research at home as in
was career and research talks (86% scoring 4 or 5; average
2020. During the 2021 program, all didactic activities also
= 4.3). During these career talks, we try to expose students
happened via Zoom as University policy prevented students
to successful scientists of similar backgrounds. These talks
from being together in groups. For both of these years, we are typically engaging and personal and are rated higher
saw similar encouraging results for students self-perceived than straight didactic lectures/lessons. Finally, in a question
ratings as in previous years, which we previously reported with a Likert scale of ‘1 - Not True’ to ‘5 - Very True,’ we
in 2020 (Fung et al., 2021). For example, on the post survey, asked students about their experience and possible gains.
we asked students to rate themselves on a scale of ‘1 - I know Table 6 shows that most students responded with a 4 or 5
Table 5. Students rate themselves higher in scientific skills after the Hillman Academy.
Total 2016-2019 2020-2021
Students rate themselves before (retro-pre) N = 145 N = 91 N = 54
and after the Hillman Academy on a scale
from 1 (I Know Nothing) to 10 (I am an individual individual individual
expert) retro-pre post gain (mean retro-pre post gain (mean retro-pre post gain (mean
(median) (median) ± SEM) (median) (median) ± SEM) (median) (median) ± SEM)
understanding how to pursue careers in science 5 8 2.42 ± 0.13 5 8 2.54 ± 0.16 5 8 2.22 ± 0.20
gathering and organizing data through the use
5 8 2.71 ± 0.17 5 8 2.55 ± 0.21 5 8 2.98 ± 0.28
of scientific tools and technology
communicating with scientists using a scientific
5 8 2.79 ± 0.18 5 8 2.9 ± 0.21 5 8 2.62 ± 0.32
vocabulary
using software to create scientific models to
3 6 2.48 ± 0.22 4 6 2.21 ± 0.25 3 7 2.94 ± 0.41
make predictions
communicating a critical thesis that clearly
5 8 2.28 ± 0.16 5 8 2.21 ± 0.25 5 8 2.94 ± 0.41
establishes the focus of my position on an issue
making use of primary research literature (e.g.
journal articles) to understand current advances 5 8 2.28 ± 0.16 5 8 2.28 ± 0.21 5 8 2.28 ± 0.26
in a scientific field
critically analyzing the quality of data generated
5 8 2.61 ± 0.18 5 8 2.68 ± 0.22 5 8 2.48 ± 0.34
in my own research
communicating scientific results to non-
6 8 2.25 ± 0.18 5.5 8 2.27 ± 0.23 6 8 2.20 ± 0.30
scientists
On the same post survey as Table 4. Students were asked to rate themselves on a scale of ‘1-I know nothing’ to ’10-I am an expert’ before and after the program.
Reported are the median values for all URM/DA students from 2016-2021 ‘Total’, pre-pandemic URM/DA students ‘2016-2019’, and URM/DA participants during
the COVID-19 pandemic ‘2020-2021.’ The individual gain was calculated by subtracting the matched retro-pre rating from the post rating and then averaging across
students and calculating the standard error.
Journal of STEM Outreach 12
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Table 6. Students report an increase in confidence and abilities after the contain ~ten students each. Likewise, our innovative new
Hillman Academy. recruiting plan with guaranteed admission to students from
% of students
Rate the following on a scale of key schools and community partners who focus on diversi-
responded
1=Not True to 5=Very True 4 or 5 ty, equity, and inclusion, has more than tripled the number
I would recommend Hillman Academy to other students 97.3 of URM/DA students applying to and attending the Hillman
I learned new concepts and skills in science 98.0 Academy. This has led to a truly diverse set of students from
I increased my proficiency at using materials, equipment, or 92.6 all backgrounds (based on race, ethnicity, socioeconomic
technology in performing job tasks status, and disability) who are underrepresented in cancer
My research experience enhanced my critical-thinking skills 91.1 research. Our newly incorporated YES program, which be-
I learned to apply science, math, and/or technology in real- 89.2 gan in September of 2019, adds an additional academic-year
world settings
curriculum that engages students in additional professional
Hillman Academy increased my confidence in my ability to 88.5
development that helps prepare them for scientific presen-
explain my research
tations at formal scientific conferences as well as for award
My research experience increased my confidence in my ability 87.2
to solve complex problems and college applications. Hillman students report significant
My research experience increased my confidence in my ability 85.0 gains in key areas related to thinking and feeling like a scien-
to be a contributing member of a research team
tist and have almost exclusively pursued further degrees in
Hillman Academy increased my confidence in my ability to 83.8
STEM fields. Our program has also forged important com-
pose scientific questions
munity partnerships that dramatically increased the num-
My research experience taught me to approach problems like 83.8
a scientist ber of URM/DA students, with an additional emphasis on
Hillman Academy increased my confidence in my ability to 83.8 Deaf/HoH students, participating in our program. Lastly, the
explain my research to a scientific audience
Hillman Academy, together with its many institutional and
Students were asked to rate the following on a Likert scale of 1-Not True to 5-Very
True. Reported are the percentage of students for each statement that reported a community partners, aims to continue its ongoing mission of
4 or 5. training the next generation of diverse scientists, physicians,
for all questions. The statements with over 90% of students teachers, and others working in STEM, and positioning them
responding 4 or 5 were: ‘I would recommend the Hillman to be change leaders in their field.
Academy to other students,’ ‘I learned new concepts and skills
in science,’ ‘I increased my proficiency at using materials,
equipment, or technology in performing job tasks’, and ‘my AUTHOR INFORMATION
research experience enhanced my critical thinking-skills’. Corresponding Author
These results suggest that the Hillman Academy is increasing David N. Boone, PhD, Assistant Professor, Department
students’ skills important to becoming a successful scientist. of Biomedical Informatics and Director, Hillman Acad-
emy , University of Pittsburgh, School of Medicine, 5607
Baum Blvd., Pittsburgh, PA 15206. 412-648-7231. Email:
SUMMARY booned@upmc.edu
For 13 years, the Hillman Academy has provided unique
foundational training, educational, and development oppor- Author Contributions
The manuscript was written through contributions of all
tunities to diverse groups of students with an emphasis on
authors. All authors have given approval to the final version
reaching students from URM/DA backgrounds and prepar-
of the manuscript.
ing them for successful careers in STEM. Students in the
Hillman Academy are immersed in mentored, cutting-edge
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri-
research projects that are the centerpiece of the program.
bution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) License.
Complementing the research experience is a comprehen-
sive curriculum that covers essential knowledge and skills
that help develop our students scientifically, professionally, ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
and personally. YES funding, combined with our innovative We thank our students for their hard work and dedication
structure with six specific research sites/foci led by six dif- throughout the Hillman Academy. We also thank the
ferent faculty, allowed for our program to grow from six to wonderful schools and community partners that work with
70 students who participate in a specialized site-specific cur- us to recruit and retain students and that provide invaluable
riculum that complements their individual research projects. advice on culturally sustaining pedagogy. The lifeblood of
It also simultaneously allows for the students to network the program are the 200 selfless mentors including faculty,
across a large number of peers through the whole program students, postdocs, and research staff, who work and
(~70 students), while developing deep bonds and having teach Hillman Academy students each year. We thank the
small local learning environments within their sites that countless administrators who help orient and accommodate
Journal of STEM Outreach 13
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
our students and the various schools and departments for Delale-O’Connor, L., Allen, A., Ball, M., Boone, D.N., Gonda, R.,
acting as hosts. We also thank University of Pittsburgh and and Iriti, J. (2021). Broadening Equity Through Recruit-
ment: Pre-College STEM Program Recruitment in Lit-
Hillman Cancer Center leadership for the support of the
erature and Practice. Connected Science Learning, 3(6).
Hillman Academy. Finally, we thank the original founder of
https://www.nsta.org/connected-science-learning/connect-
the Hillman Academy, Dr. Michael Lotze. ed-science-learning-november-december-2021/broaden-
ing-equity
Eeds, A., Vanags, C., Creamer, J., Loveless, M., Dixon, A., Sper-
FUNDING SOURCES
ling, H., McCombs, G., Robinson, D., and Shepherd, V. L.
Our funding is provided by the NIH NCI R25 CA236620 (2014). The School for Science and Math at Vanderbilt:
(YES), DDCF 2016-146, and through various contributions An innovative research-based program for high school stu-
by the University of Pittsburgh, Hillman Cancer Center, The dents. CBE Life Sciences Education, 13(2), 297–310.
Hillman Foundation, and grateful parents and patients.
Freeman, R. B., and Huang, W. (2015). Collaborating with People
like me: Ethnic co-authorship within the U.S. journal of
labor economics, 33(S1), S289–S318.
ABBREVIATIONS
Fung, E. B., Frey, M. R., Valmont, M. E., Caffey-Fleming, D. E.,
ASL: American Sign Language; CIMER: Center for the
Fraser, M., Williams, J., Killilea, D. W., Bogenmann, E.,
Improvement of Mentored Experiences in Research; CURE:
Livshits, S., and Boone, D. N. (2021). Success of distance
Continuing Umbrella of Research Experiences; Deaf/HoH:
learning during 2020 COVID-19 restrictions: A report
Deaf and Hard of Hearing; FAME: Fund for Advancement from five STEM training programs for underrepresent-
of Minorities through Education; HCC: Hillman Cancer ed high school and undergraduate learners. The Journal
of STEM Outreach, 4(3). https://doi.org/10.15695/jstem/
Center; HCEF: Fund for Advancement of Minorities through
v4i3.03
Education; NCI: National Cancer Institute; Pitt: Universi-
ty of Pittsburgh; PPS: Pittsburgh Public School(s); UPMC: Hacker, K., Brink, L., Jones, L., and Monroe C. (2017). 2015-2016
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center; URM/DA: Under- Allegheny County Health Survey (ACHS): Measuring the
Health of Adult Residents. Retrieved from https://www.
represented Minority and Disadvantaged; YES: Youth Enjoy
alleghenycounty.us/uploadedFiles/Allegheny_Home/
Science
Health_Department/Resources/Data_and_Reporting/
Chronic_Disease_Epidemiology/Behavioral-Risk-Fac-
tor-Survey-2015-2016.pdf
REFERENCES
Hong, L., and Page, S. E. (2004). Groups of diverse problem solv-
Balster, N., Pfund, C., Rediske, R., and Branchaw, J. (2010).
ers can outperform groups of high-ability problem solv-
Entering research: A course that creates community and
ers. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
structure for beginning undergraduate researchers in the
101(46), 16385–16389.
STEM disciplines. CBE—Life Sciences Education, 9(2),
108–118.
Jackal, D. (2019). Deaf scientists just created over 1000 new signs
to dramatically improve ability to communicate. Leaps-
Branchaw, J. l., Burz A. R., and Smith, A. R. (2020). Entering Re-
mag. Retrieved from https://leaps.org/deaf-scientists-just-
search: A Curriculum to Support Undergraduate and Grad-
created-over-1000-new-signs-to-dramatically-improve-
uate Research Trainees, 2nd ed. New York, NY: Macmil-
ability-to-communicate/
lan Learning.
Junge, B., Quinones, C., Kakietek, J., Teodorescu, D., and
Campbell, T., and Campbell, D.E. (1997). Faculty/student mentor
Marsteller, P. (2010). Promoting undergraduate interest,
program: Effects on academic performance and retention.
preparedness, and professional pursuit in the sciences: An
Research in Higher Education, 38(6), 727–42.
outcomes evaluation of the SURE program at Emory Uni-
Cohen, J. J., Gabriel, B. A., and Terrell, C. (2002). The case for di- versity. CBE-Life Sciences Education, 9(2), 119-132.
versity in the health care workforce. Health Affairs, 21(5),
Kim, Y.K., and Sax, L.J. (2011). Are the effects of student-faculty
90–102.
interaction dependent on academic major? An examination
Council of the Great City Schools. (2016). Review of the Pittsburgh using multilevel modeling. Research in Higher Education,
Public Schools - Organization, Instruction, Research, and 52(6), 589–615.
Operations. Retrieved from https://www.cgcs.org/cms/lib/
King, A. J., Fisher, A. M., Becich, M. J., and Boone, D. N. (2017).
DC00001581/Centricity/Domain/4/Pittsburgh%20Report.
Computer science, biology and biomedical informatics
pdf
academy: outcomes from 5 years of immersing high-
school students into informatics research. Journal of Pa-
thology Informatics, 8(2). doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.201110
Journal of STEM Outreach 14
Hillman Cancer Center Youth Enjoy Science Academy – Ayoob et al. Vol. 5, Issue 2, August 2022
Kobrak, P. (1992). Black student retention in predominantly white Page, L. C., Kehoe, S. S., Castleman, B. L., and Sahadewo, G. A.
regional universities: The politics of faculty involvement. (2019). More than dollars for scholars the impact of the
Journal of Negro Education, 61(4), 509–30. Dell Scholars Program on college access, persistence, and
degree attainment. Journal of Human Resources, 54(3),
Listman, J. D., and Dingus-Eason, J. (2018). How to be a deaf sci- 683-725.
entist: Building navigational capital. Journal of Diversity
in Higher Education, 11(3), 279–294. Program in Urban and Regional Analysis. (2015). Economic Pro-
files of Mon Valley Communities. Economic Development
Livshits, S., and Boone, D. N. (2020). Hillman Academy. Hun- Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce. Retrieved
dred.org. Retrieved January 13, 2022, from https://hun- January 14, 2022, from https://studylib.net/doc/18590845/
dred.org/en/innovations/hillman-academy economic-profiles-of-mon-valley-communities--janu-
ary-2015
Lopatto, D. (2004). Survey of Undergraduate Research Experienc-
es (SURE): First findings. Cell Biology Education, 3(4), Sahin, A., Ekmekci, A., and Waxman, H. C. (2017). The relation-
270–277. ships among high school STEM learning experiences, ex-
pectations, and mathematics and science efficacy and the
Lopatto, D. (2007). Undergraduate research experiences support
likelihood of majoring in STEM in college. International
science career decisions and active learning. CBE Life
Journal of Science Education, 39(11), 1549–1572.
Sciences Education, 6(4), 297–306.
SEER. (2017). SEER Cancer Statistics Review, 1975-2014. Can-
Lynn, M. A., Butcher, E., Cuculick, J. A., Barnett, S., Martina, C.
cer Statistics Review, 1975-2014 – SEER Statistics. Na-
A., Smith, S. R., Pollard, R. Q., and Simpson-Haidaris, P.
tional Cancer Institute.
J. (2020). A review of mentoring deaf and hard-of-hearing
scholars. Mentoring and Tutoring: Partnership in Learn- Singh, G. K., and Jemal, A. (2017). Socioeconomic and racial/
ing, 28(2), 211–228. ethnic disparities in cancer mortality, incidence, and sur-
vival in the United States, 1950-2014: Over six decades
Madhusoodanan J. (2016). Tuning in to Deaf needs. Science. doi:
of changing patterns and widening inequalities. Journal
10.1126/science.caredit.a1600101
of Environmental and Public Health, 2017. https://doi.
org/10.1155/2017/2819372
Maton, K.I., Hrabowski, F.A., and Schmitt, C.L. (2000). African
American college students excelling in the sciences: Col-
Solomon C.M. (2012). Workshop for Emerging Deaf and Hard
lege and postcollege outcomes in the Meyerhoff Scholars
of Hearing Scientists. Retrieved January 9, 2022, from
Program. Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 37(7),
https://www.washington.edu/accesscomputing/sites/de-
629–54.
fault/files/manual-upload/WhitePaper-Final_Gallaudet_
Emerging_Sci_2_15_13.pdf
Miller, K., Sonnert, G., and Sadler, P. (2018). The influence of stu-
dents’ participation in STEM competitions on their interest
Talcott, J. A., Spain, P., Clark, J. A., Carpenter, W. R., Young, K.
in STEM careers. International Journal of Science Educa-
Do, Hamilton, R. J., Galanko, J. A., Jackman, A., and God-
tion, Part B, 8(2), 95-114.
ley, P. A. (2007). Hidden barriers between knowledge and
behavior: The North Carolina prostate cancer screening
Nakamura, J., and Shernoff, D. F. (2009). Good mentoring: Foster-
and treatment experience. Cancer, 109(8), 1599–1606.
ing excellent practice in higher education. San Francisco,
CA: John Wiley and Sons.
Toven-Lindsey, B., Levis-Fitzgerald, M., Barber, P. H., and Has-
son, T. (2015). Increasing persistence in undergraduate
National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics. (2019).
science majors: A model for institutional support of under-
Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities in Sci-
represented students. CBE Life Sciences Education, 14(2).
ence and Engineering: 2019. Retrieved December 13,
https://doi.org/10.1187/cbe.14-05-0082
2021, from https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsf19304/data/
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (2019). Popula-
Nimon, K., Zigarmi, D., and Allen, J. (2011). Measures of pro-
tions underrepresented in the extramural scientific work-
gram effectiveness based on retrospective pretest data: Are
force. National Institutes of Health. Retrieved February
all created equal? American Journal of Evaluation, 32(1),
9, 2022, from https://diversity.nih.gov/about-us/popula-
8–28.
tion-underrepresented
Norris, K.C., and Agodoa, L.Y. (2006). Expanding the minority
Ward, E., Jemal, A., Cokkinides, V., Singh, G. K., Cardinez, C.,
biomedical pipeline: The NIDDK national high school
Ghafoor, A., and Thun, M. (2004). Cancer disparities by
student summer research program. Ethnicity and Disease,
race/ethnicity and socioeconomic status. CA: A Cancer
16(4 Suppl 5):1-2
Journal for Clinicians, 54(2), 78–93.
Noy, S., and Ray, R. (2011). Graduate students’ perspectives of
their advisors: Is there systematic disadvantage in mentor-
ship? The Journal of Higher Education, 10(10), 1–39.
Journal of STEM Outreach 15
