SpeechandLanguageTechnologyin
Education(SLaTE20(cid:20)(cid:20))
ISCAArchive
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:92)
http://www.isca-speech.org/archive
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:23)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:20)
(cid:3)
What visual feedback should a reading tutor give children on their oral reading
prosody?
Sunayana Sitaram, Jack Mostow, Yuanpeng Li, Anders Weinstein, David Yen, Joe Valeri
Project LISTEN, School of Computer Science,
Carnegie Mellon University
{ssitaram, mostow, yuanpengli, andersw}@cs.cmu.edu, aviden@gmail.com, jmv@andrew.cmu.edu
Abstract awareness, and will serve as a motivational reward in itself if
children find it enjoyable.
An automated reading tutor that models and evaluates The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2
children's oral reading prosody should also be able to respond relates this work to prior research. Section 3 describes our
dynamically with feedback they like, understand, and benefit approach. Section 4 reports initial user studies with children.
from. We describe visual feedback that Project LISTEN's Section 5 describes ongoing work. Section 6 concludes.
Reading Tutor generates in realtime by mapping prosodic
features of children's oral reading to dynamic graphical 2. Relation to prior work
features of displayed text. We present results from
preliminary usability studies of 20 children aged 7-10. We Bonneau and Colotte [2011 (to be published)] have studied
also describe an experiment to test whether such visual visual feedback on oral reading, but mostly on pronunciation
feedback elicits oral reading that more closely matches the rather than prosody. This feedback has taken various forms.
prosodic contours of adult narrations. Effective feedback on Talking heads offer a naturalistic feedback mechanism for
prosody could help children become fluent, expressive readers. pronunciation and prosody [Engwall and Balter, 2007].
Index Terms: prosody, visual feedback, intelligent tutoring Project LISTEN’s Reading Tutor’s interventions include
systems, children, speech technology for education. playing a short video clip of a mouth pronouncing a phoneme,
illustrated in Figure 1 of [Aist et al., 2002]. Interaction with a
1. Introduction human-like virtual agent enables interventions that would be
impossible in the physical world, such as cutaway views of the
Fluency is the ability to read not only quickly, easily, and vocal tract, lips, and articulators [Cole et al., 1999; Cylwik et
accurately, but expressively – that is, with prosody (timing, al., 2008].
intonation, and stress) appropriate to the text. Fluency rubrics The Fluency Pronunciation Trainer [Eskenazi and
for teachers to score oral reading include expressiveness Hansma, 1998] for foreign language pronunciation training
[Allington, 1983; Pinnell et al., 1995; Rasinski, 1990]. used a speech recognizer to compare the student’s vowel
Text lacks the prosodic cues that speech provides, so durations to those of native speakers reading the same prompt.
young readers must learn to make up for them, for example by The system displayed a symbol below each word to indicate
attending to punctuation or syntax [Schreiber, 1987]. whether its vowel segment was too long, too short, or OK.
Expressive reading by a teacher or parent provides a model of Vardanian [1964] used melodic curve visualization for
appropriate prosody [Rasinski, 2003]. There is more than one second language learning and tested its impact on learners,
appropriate way to read any given sentence, but resemblance with disappointing results, perhaps due to the quality of the
to adult prosody predicts performance and gains in fluency and visualizations. In the system described in [Bonneau and
comprehension [Miller and Schwanenflugel, 2006; Miller and Colotte, 2011 (to be published)] the spectrogram and F0 curve
Schwanenflugel, 2008; Mostow and Duong, 2009; Young et of the user’s utterance are shown, with arrows indicating
al., 1996]. whether the pitch of the target syllables should be lowered or
Effective tutoring includes not only modeling and practice, raised. The color of each arrow maps to the difference in
but feedback as well. Making expressive, appropriate prosody height between the user’s F0 and native realizations of the
an explicit goal should improve comprehension by getting syllable. The display also includes a curve representing the F0
children to attend to the textual features and comprehension contour and bars representing the syllable and vowel durations
processes required to read expressively instead of, word, by, of the narration and those of the user.
word. But getting children to share this goal may require The closest work we found to visual feedback for children
giving them feedback on their performance. on oral reading prosody was GRAFYC [Finlay], a series of
Feedback on prosody is difficult because prosody is both games that promote prosody awareness among young children.
fleeting and invisible. Fortunately, technology affords novel However, the feedback is not on children’s oral reading. The
forms of feedback inspired in part by the work of artist Golan system displays a sentence, plays a recorded narration of it,
Levin (www.flong.com) on interactive voice-driven displays and prompts the child to click on the location of a prosodic
and their success in engaging children’s interest. These feature such as a stress or pause. Game characters react when
displays translate prosodic properties of speech, such as pitch, the child responds correctly.
amplitude, and duration, into intuitive visual analogues such as To explore possible games based on children’s oral
position, color, and size, enabling children to create displayed reading prosody, we conducted design studies of target-hitting
shapes simply by speaking. games, implemented as separate programs driven by children’s
We adapt such technology to give visual feedback on oral reading previously recorded by the Reading Tutor. Each
reader prosody by dynamically modifying the displayed text to game displayed the words of a sentence as a series of targets
reflect it. Some feedback simply mirrors the child's prosody, for the game character – a morsel of cheese for a mouse to eat,
while normative feedback reflects assessment of the child's a balloon for a paper airplane to pop, or a fly for a frog to
prosody. The prosody-matching task should foster prosodic catch – at heights corresponding to their pitches in the adult
Speech and Language Technology in Education (SLaTE2011) 153
93-1102.ETaLS/73412.01
narration. The player’s oral reading prosody controlled the We displayed prosodic contours below the current sentence, in
character’s trajectory. Hitting a target made it vanish. This the blank area where the next sentence will appear.
feat seemed too hard even for fluent adult readers, suggesting This design reflects several lessons learned along the way:
the need for more holistic feedback at a higher grain size. 1. Don’t map different features to word height and
width. It distorts their aspect ratio, with ugly results.
3. Approach 2. Don’t map word times directly to the x-axis. Slow
reading with long pauses takes too much space. The
Visual feedback on oral reading prosody should serve multiple x-axis may be the most natural way to display time in
purposes. It should engage children in oral reading by letting a static display. But in a dynamic display, the
them use it to control the display, and by responding synchronicity of sound and graphics conveys time
dynamically. It should create a visible trace of children’s oral intuitively by revealing, moving, or highlighting each
reading prosody in a form intuitively understandable to text word when it is read aloud.
children and their teachers. It should also, when appropriate, 3. Displaying sentences longer than one line is a
apply the same visual effects to the Reading Tutor’s recorded problem; none of the following solutions is ideal:
narrations to make visible the appropriate prosody they model. a. Squeezing a long sentence into a single line makes
It should challenge the student to read a given sentence in such the text too small to read.
a way as to match its displayed prosodic contour as closely as b. Scrolling a long sentence horizontally makes it
possible. hard to read and even harder to reread.
In order to explore a space of designs for prosody c. Splitting a contour across lines keeps text and
visualization, we developed a program to input oral reading, contour together, but obscures the contour’s overall
compute prosodic features using the Sphinx [CMU, 2008] shape and requires extra vertical space between lines
front end, aggregate frame-level features into word-level to leave space for the contour. We picked this
features, and display them according to an input specification option as the least of the evils.
of how to map each feature. To modify the display, we simply Table 1 describes the mapping from prosodic to graphical
edit this mapping, represented as an SQLite query that features for dynamic feedback in our preliminary user studies.
specifies which graphical features to use (e.g. rectangles or
Prosodic feature of word Graphical feature
text words) and which prosodic feature to map to each
Timing Timing
graphical feature.
Pitch Height
Initially we mapped each word’s prosodic features to
Intensity Font size
graphical features of a static display. As Figure 1 shows, one
such mapping displayed pitch as vertical position, pause Latency (Complement of ) saturation
duration as horizontal spacing, and word duration (normalized Confidence Brightness
by number of letters) as font size.
Table 1: Mapping prosody to dynamic graphical features
Pitch: As Figure 2 illustrates, we map a word’s pitch to its
vertical position. A word with no pitch estimate (e.g. omitted,
rejected, or unvoiced) appears at the same vertical position as
the previous word, in order not to look like a pitch excursion.
Figure 1: Initial static display for adult narrator,
fluent child, and disfluent child
We informally user-tested this mapping by displaying Figure 2: Words read with varying pitch and intensity
Figure 1 on a poster at an education conference and asking
visitors to the poster to guess the mapping. They typically The Reading Tutor moves each word up or down
interpreted word height as pitch and space width as silence according to how high or low the student spoke it, relative to
duration, but font size as intensity rather than word duration. his or her baseline average pitch. To adjust for differences in
The next version still mapped the target adult narration to mean F0, we map the child's and narrator's baselines to the
a static display, but displayed dynamic feedback on the child’s same vertical position. We estimate the narrator's baseline F0
prosody. Displaying both contours as words is confusing, so by averaging over the sentence contour, which we know in
we mapped the narration to rectangles, providing a “cityscape” advance. However, we do not know the child's mean F0 for
(adjoining rectangles of different heights) or “staircase” the sentence in advance, so we use 270 Hz [Sorenson, 1989],
(horizontal lines at different heights) as a target pitch contour which is typical for children. We plan to replace it with the F0
to aim at. To maximize transfer to normal reading, we laid out of the first word of the sentence or the mean F0 of the child’s
text as normally as possible. To emphasize the mapping from reading so far.
text words to prosodic contour, we preserved their horizontal Intensity: As Figure 2 also illustrates, we map intensity to
locations, varying just their vertical positions, size, and color. font size – the louder the word is read, the larger it appears.
Speech and Language Technology in Education (SLaTE2011) 154
Mapping a feature to font size can make words overlap, read with the prosody display. Students were also asked if they
reducing legibility, so we constrain words to fit inside non- understood why the words looked the way they did and
overlapping bounding boxes: a word can expand at most to whether they understood what the shapes under the words
where the next word begins. meant.
Latency: To encourage fluent reading, we map larger Afterwards, one of the authors interviewed the student for
latency to lower saturation. The longer the child pauses before 2-3 minutes about his or her experience with the new display.
a word, the paler it turns, e.g. the word with in Figure 3. During the interviews, we asked the children to describe what
they saw on the screen and guess what the words moving up
and down, the size of the words and their colors meant. We
also asked them what they liked and didn’t like about the way
the words looked, and what colors or shapes they would use to
indicate “good” or “bad” reading. We were careful in the
interviews not to describe the actual mappings.
4.2. Observations and feedback
16 of the 20 children said in the interview that they liked
reading with the prosody display more than reading
without it, typically because it was “fun”. 2 children said
it was “ok,” and 2 children said they didn’t like it.
Only 2 children realized that the rectangles and staircase
at the bottom correspond to the way the tutor reads the
Figure 3: Words read with varying latency sentence.
Four children said (incorrectly) that the words moved up
Confidence: We map ASR confidence to brightness, so a
and down according to how fast they read, or that the
low confidence or rejected word is darker or black.
words went up and down to show that they read the word
Our preliminary user studies showed that children did
correctly. That is, they thought that latency or accuracy
not perceive the narration contour as a target. To emphasize
mapped to vertical position, rather than pitch.
this role, we now map target proximity to color. That is, the
They suggested using color to indicate good and bad
closer the child’s pitch corresponds to the narrator’s (adjusting
reading. 8 children suggested using their favorite color
for difference in mean pitch), the greener the word turns.
for good reading. There wasn't a general consensus about
which color could indicate good reading and which one
4. Evaluation
could indicate bad reading, although some seemed to
We now describe our evaluation procedure and results. agree that green and red were good choices, respectively.
Only 2 of the first 17 children could tell that intensity
4.1. Preliminary usability testing mapped to font size, but font size didn’t vary enough to
be very noticeable, so we adjusted the mapping to
We conducted user studies on 20 children ages 7-10, in grades
amplify the differences. 2 of the 3 children tested
2, 3 and 4. All students except one had used the Reading
subsequently noticed the mapping. 3 of the earlier
Tutor before. We did not tell the students what the prosody
children thought that the word got bigger if they read it
display meant, or how they were supposed to interpret the
correctly and smaller if they got it wrong, i.e., that
visual feedback. The preliminary user test aimed to find out:
correctness mapped to font size.
1. How much information should we display?
The children noticed that some words were paler or
2. What are children’s mental models of the display?
darker (due to latency and confidence) but did not know
3. What do they have to say about the feedback?
why. 3 children said that the colors changed when they
4. How would they like it to look and behave?
got the word wrong.
Table 2 lists the five variants we tested. Variants 1 and 2
2 children felt that words moving around made it harder
compared two contour shapes to see if they preferred either
for them to read and preferred the older version. One of
shape or were likelier to perceive it as a target. Variants 2
the other children said that the words moving up and
through 5 compared successively larger amounts of
down made it easier for him to read the next word and
information displayed.
not skip it.
Variant Prosodic features mapped Narration contour Errors by the Reading Tutor in tracking the child’s
1 Pitch, intensity cityscape position are more obvious when the words move. One
2 Pitch, intensity staircase child said that when multiple words moved down quickly
3 Pitch, intensity, latency staircase because of a tracking error, he got confused about which
Pitch, intensity, ASR word he was on. Some children skipped words that
4 staircase
confidence moved down due to being hallucinated by the ASR.
Pitch, intensity, latency, When we asked some children what they wanted the
5 staircase
ASR confidence display to look like when they read something wrong, 2
of them said that they wanted the Reading Tutor to
Table 2: Variants used for usability testing
correct them verbally but they did not want to see any
During the usability test, each student first read one or change in display. We think the reason is that they did
more stories. When a student finished a story, the Reading not want evidence of errors on the screen for others to
Tutor asked 4 multiple-choice questions. see.
The survey questions at the end of the stories asked the
students whether they enjoyed using the new version of the
Reading Tutor or not, whether it was easier or more difficult to
Speech and Language Technology in Education (SLaTE2011) 155
5. Work in progress France, June 5-7, 2002, S.A. CERRI, G. GOUARDÈRES and F.
PARAGUAÇU, Eds. Springer, 992.
Section 4 focused on children’s mental models, and whether ALLINGTON, R.L. 1983. Fluency: The neglected reading goal.
they liked using the Reading Tutor with the prosody display. Reading Teacher 36(6), 556-561.
BONNEAU, A. and COLOTTE, V. 2011 (to be published). Automatic
An experiment now underway tests whether visual feedback
Feedback for L2 Prosody Learning. In Speech Technologies,
actually increases the resemblance of children’s prosodic
Intech.
contours to adult narrations of the same sentences.
CMU 2008. The CMU Sphinx Group Open Source Speech
The experiment manipulates three independent variables: Recognition Engines [software at cmusphinx.sourceforge.net].
1. Does the tutor play the adult narration? COLE, R., MASSARO, D.W., VILLIERS, J.D., RUNDLE, B.,
2. Does the tutor display the static narration contour? SHOBAKI, K., WOUTERS, J., COHEN, M., BESKOW, J.,
3. Does the tutor display dynamic feedback on prosody? STONE, P., CONNORS, P., TARACHOW, A. and SOLCHER,
The control condition includes narration but not display. D. 1999. New tools for interactive speech and language training:
Using animated conversational agents in the classrooms of
We will test static contours and dynamic feedback separately
profoundly deaf children. In ESCA/SOCRATES Workshop on
to assess whether dynamic feedback helps or hampers reading.
Method and Tool Innovations for Speech Science Education,
London, UK, April, 1999.
6. Conclusions CYLWIK, N., DEMENKO, G., JOKISCH, O., JÄCKEL, R., RUSKO,
M., HOFFMANN, R., RONZHIN, A., HIRSCHFELD, D.,
The paper sets the goal of engaging, understandable, effective KOLOSKA, U. and HANISCH, L. 2008. The use of CALL in
graphical feedback on children’s oral reading prosody. We acquiring foreign language pronunciation and prosody – General
frame the problem of mapping word-level prosodic features to specifications for Euronounce Project. In Proc. SASR,
graphical features, and discuss our explorations in the space Piechowice, Poland, September 2008, 2008.
and the design decisions based on them. We describe an ENGWALL, O. and BALTER, O. 2007. Pronunciation Feedback from
Real and Virtual Language Teachers. Computer Assisted
implemented tool to generate feedback in the Reading Tutor.
Language Learning 20(3), 235-262.
We present report observations and feedback from 20 children
ESKENAZI, M. and HANSMA, S. 1998. The Fluency Pronunciation
in preliminary usability testing. Trainer. In Proc. Speech Technology in Language Learning,
Although it would be rash to draw firm conclusions from Marholmen, Sweden, 1998.
small pilot studies, they suggest some tentative hypotheses for FINLAY, S.A. GRAFYC: Game For Realizing Accentuation For
future work to test: Children enjoy dynamic visual feedback. Young Children.
They generally don't understand the static target or dynamic MILLER, J. and SCHWANENFLUGEL, P.J. 2006. Prosody of
mapping. Most children enjoy the moving words, but a few Syntactically Complex Sentences in the Oral Reading of Young
Children. Journal of Educational Psychology 98(4), 839-853.
find them hard to read. Children enjoy color, especially as
MILLER, J. and SCHWANENFLUGEL, P.J. 2008. A Longitudinal
normative feedback. Even without seeing or understanding
Study of the Development of Reading Prosody as a Dimension
the static target, children seem both eager and able to approach of Oral Reading Fluency in Early Elementary School Children.
it based on proximity color. Dynamic prosodic feedback Reading Research Quarterly 43(4), 336–354.
seems to elicit prosody that resembles a fluent adult more than MOSTOW, J. and DUONG, M. 2009. Automated Assesment of Oral
it would otherwise. We need more user testing to find the best Reading Prosody. In 14th International Conference on Artificial
combination(s) of the independent variables: whether to Intelligence in Education (AIED2009), Brighton, UK, July 6-10,
display the target adult contour (statically), the child's prosodic 2009, 2009, V. DIMITROVA, R. MIZOGUCHI, B.D. BOULAY
and A. GRAESSER, Eds. IOS Press, 189-196.
contour (dynamically), and/or its proximity to the target.
PINNELL, G.S., PIKULSKI, J.J., WIXSON, K.K., CAMPBELL, J.R.,
An important question for future research is when to
GOUGH, P.B. and BEATTY, A.S. 1995. Listening to Children
introduce prosody feedback. Visual feedback may be
Read Aloud: Oral Reading Fluency, National Center for
distracting for a child who is struggling to decode words. It Educational Statistics, Washington, DC.
may make sense to delay prosody feedback until a child is RASINSKI, T.V. 1990. Investigating Measures of Reading Fluency.
comfortable with reading stories of a certain level. Educational Research Quarterly 14(3), 37-44.
Data collection has now commenced for our experiment to RASINSKI, T.V. 2003. The fluent reader: oral reading strategies for
test the effectiveness of the prosody display in terms of building word recognition, fluency, and comprehension.
Scholastic Professional Books, New York, N.Y. 192 pp.
helping children emulate adult oral reading prosody. If
SCHREIBER, P.A. 1987. Prosody and structure in children's syntactic
successful, such visual feedback could help improve oral
processing. In Comprehending oral and written language, R.
reading fluency, expressiveness, and comprehension.
HOROWITZ and S.J. SAMUELS, Eds. Academic Press, San
Diego, CA, 243-270.
7. Acknowledgements SORENSON, D.N. 1989. A fundamental frequency investigation of
children ages 6-10 years old. Journal of Communicative
The research reported here was supported by the Institute of Disorders 22, 115–123.
Education Sciences, U.S. Department of Education, through VARDANIAN, R.M. 1964. Teaching English Intonation Through
Grant R305A080628. The opinions expressed are those of the Oscilloscope Displays. Language Learning 14(3-4), 109-117.
authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the YOUNG, A.R., BOWERS, P.G. and MACKINNON, G.E. 1996.
Effects of prosodic modeling and repeated reading on poor
Institute or the U.S. Department of Education. We also thank
readers' fluency and comprehension. Applied Psycholinguistics
Dr. Paula Schwanenflugel for her expertise, and the educators,
17, 59-84.
students, and LISTENers who helped generate our data.
8. References
AIST, G., KORT, B., REILLY, R., MOSTOW, J. and PICARD, R.
2002. Adding Human-Provided Emotional Scaffolding to an
Automated Reading Tutor that Listens Increases Student
Persistence [Poster]. In Proceedings of the Sixth International
Conference on Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS'2002), Biarritz,
Speech and Language Technology in Education (SLaTE2011) 156
