Exploring Smart Commercial Building Occupants’ Perceptions and Notification
Preferences of Internet of Things Data Collection in the United States
Tu Le1,2, Alan Wang1, Yaxing Yao3, Yuanyuan Feng4, Arsalan Heydarian1, Norman Sadeh5, and Yuan Tian1,2
1University of Virginia
2University of California, Los Angeles
3University of Maryland, Baltimore County
4University of Vermont
5Carnegie Mellon University
Abstract—Data collection through the Internet of Things erly applied light exposures can increase alertness and
(IoT) devices, or smart devices, in commercial buildings circadian entertainment [20].
enables possibilities for increased convenience and energy Problem. Despite the numerous potential benefits of
efficiency. However, such benefits face a large perceptual making environments “smarter”, the transition may also
challengewhenbeingimplementedinpractice,duetothedif- introduce great challenges due to the potential privacy
ferent ways occupants working in the buildings understand issues [28]. Continuous data collection can expose more
and trust in the data collection. The semi-public, pervasive, data than anticipated by the users, and the collected data
andmulti-modalnatureofdatacollectioninsmartbuildings can be shared with third parties [13], [35]. One particular
privacy issue in these environments relates to occupants’ pointstotheneedtostudyoccupants’understandingofdata
awareness of these smart devices and their data collection
collectionandnotificationpreferences.Weconductanonline
and use practices. Research has shown that occupants in
study with 492 participants in the US who report working
smart environments have significant privacy concerns, yet
in smart commercial buildings regarding: 1) awareness and
the level of transparency regarding the data practices in
perceptionofdatacollectioninsmartcommercialbuildings,
smart environments and their ability to control these data
2) privacy notification preferences, and 3) potential factors
practices are limited [23]. To increase the transparency of
for privacy notification preferences. We find that around
datapracticesandraiseoccupants’awarenessofdataprac-
half of the participants are not fully aware of the data
ticesinsmartenvironments,researchhasproposedvarious
collection and use practices of IoT even though they notice
mechanisms, such as notifications via mobile devices,
the presence of IoT devices and sensors. We also discover
networkmonitoringthroughwebapps,ambientlights,and
many misunderstandings around different data practices.
sounds, etc. [14], [19], [27], [33], [43]. However, prior
The majority of participants want to be notified of data
researchprimarilyfocusesonsmarthomes,withlessfocus
practices in smart buildings, and they prefer push notifi-
onothermorepublicsmartenvironments.Severalkeydif-
cations to passive ones such as websites or physical signs.
ferences exist between managing privacy in homes versus
Surprisingly,mobileappnotification,despitebeingapopular
commercialbuildings,makingsmartbuildingprivacynoti-
channel for smart homes, is the least preferred method for
ficationanovelandchallengingproblem.First,inahome,
smart commercial buildings.
thesamepeopleaffectedbythepotentialprivacyinvasions
are mostly capable of changing or removing the offend-
Index Terms—data collection, notification, privacy, IoT,
ing devices. In contrast, in a commercial building, the
smart building, smart devices
occupants might be less aware of the data collection and
mightfeeltheyarelessincontroloftheirprivacy.Second,
1. Introduction the occupants might have a different mental model when
facingthecommercialbuildings’pervasivedatacollection
The Internet of Things (IoT), or smart devices, have comparedtotheirownhomes.Finally,smartbuildingdata
increasingly made their way into various physical envi- collection is multi-modal, pervasive, and large-scale. The
ronments, transitioning them into “smart environments”. privacy notifications, if not well designed, will cause user
These smart devices have introduced significant benefits apathyormisunderstanding.Asaresult,thereisaneedto
to users and society at large. Continuous monitoring of comprehensivelyunderstandusers’awareness,perceptions
indoor environmental conditions and user behaviors in of data collection, and privacy notification preferences in
smart devices-equipped buildings can help reduce energy the smart commercial building environment to inform the
consumption as well as enhance users’ comfort and well- design of smart building privacy notifications.
being [3], [44]. For example, Lu et al. [29] shows that ResearchGoal.Inthispaper,wefocusonsmartcom-
using sensors to intelligently control the home’s heating, mercial buildings, an understudied yet important smart
ventilation, and cooling (HVAC) system can achieve a environmentintheprivacyliterature.Weuse“smartcom-
28% energy saving. Figueiro et al. also shows how prop- mercial buildings” to denote commercial buildings that
3202
voN
03
]RC.sc[
3v55940.3032:viXra
are equipped with smart devices (e.g., Internet-connected participants who are highly confident about their knowl-
security cameras) and sensors (e.g., smart water meters), edge of IoT devices, still have misunderstandings about
and use “occupants” to denote people who work in or data collection purposes and data access of smart devices
regularly enter these buildings. We aim to understand in smart commercial buildings. For example, few people
occupants’ awareness of smart devices in these buildings, understoodthatBluetoothbeacon’sdatawouldbeusedfor
aswellastheirpreferencesinreceivingnotificationsabout localization even though localization is in fact its primary
smart devices and their associated data practices. Our data purpose. One participant even incorrectly assumed
scope focuses on occupants in the US. that Bluetooth beacon could get unauthorized access to
Importance. This research is significant for two rea- his/her phone. In terms of their notification preferences,
sons. First, due to the nature of occupants’ tasks and ac- the majority of our participants (91%) indicated their
tivities in smart commercial buildings, the privacy impli- willingnesstoreceivenotificationsaboutthedatapractices
cationscanbedifferentfromthoseinotherenvironments, regardless of their prior knowledge of smart devices. We
such as smart homes. Particularly, how to appropriately also found that email was the most desired channel to de-
handle privacy notifications in smart buildings remains an liverprivacy-relatednotifications,whilesomeparticipants
open issue. In addition, existing techniques for maintain- preferred other channels (e.g., physical signs) depending
ingprivacyinotherIoTenvironmentssuchassmarthomes onthescenarios.Ourdatahelpsusidentifyseveralfactors
areunlikelytoapplyinthesmartbuildingcontext.Forex- thatmayimpactourparticipants’notificationpreferences,
ample,thepowerdynamicsinsmartcommercialbuildings such as their awareness of data collection and confidence
(e.g.,employersvs.employees,administratorsvs.tenants) in their knowledge of smart devices.
may influence how occupants perceive privacy. Second, Contributions. This work contributes to privacy re-
recent privacy regulations around the world have also search and human-centered computing in several aspects:
mandated the disclosure of certain data collection prac- • We provide a comprehensive user study to under-
ticesinpublicplaces.Forexample,boththeGeneralData stand occupants’ awareness and perceptions of data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Con- collection in smart commercial buildings, generating
sumerPrivacyAct(CCPA)protectusers’controloverany importantempiricalevidenceinthisareaofresearch.
personalinformationabusinesscollectsaboutthem [11], • Our study provides a systematic understanding of
[21], [22], [32]. As a result, it is important to understand occupants’ preferences for privacy notifications in
occupants’ privacy expectations and study their privacy smart commercial buildings and the potential factors
notification preferences in smart commercial buildings. that impact their preferences.
It is also timely for building owners to understand the • Wedrawimplicationsfordesigningatransparentdata
mechanisms underlying privacy expectations and build a collection framework for future generations of smart
fiduciary relationship with their occupants. commercial buildings.
Research Questions. In this paper, we aim to answer Paper Outline. The rest of the paper is organized in
the following research questions: the following way. We first introduce the related work in
• RQ1: What are the occupants’ perceptions of data Section 2 and then explain the design of our user study
collection in smart commercial buildings? in Section 3. We present our data analysis and results
• RQ2: What are the occupants’ notification prefer- about the user study in Section 4. We then discuss the
ences for data collection in smart commercial build- privacy law implications, the suggestions for improving
ings in different contexts? smartbuildingdatacollectiontransparency,thelimitations
• RQ3: What potential factors affect occupants’ no- of our study, the potential future work in Section 5, and
tification preferences for data collection in smart conclude the study in the end.
commercial buildings in different contexts?
2. Related Work
Our Study. To answer these research questions, we
conducted an online study of 492 participants in the US.
Our participants are people who have worked in smart This section discusses the previous work and how our
commercial buildings. We use the term (smart) commer- work is different. The related work is presented as three
cial building throughout the paper to indicate our partici- themes: IoT in Smart Buildings, IoT Privacy, and Privacy
pants’ indoor workplaces that deploy IoT devices/sensors Notifications for IoT.
other than their homes. In our study, we explored the
participants’ awareness and perception of data collection 2.1. IoT in Smart Buildings
in the buildings and used a series of questions to identify
whether they want to be notified on the different modal- While there are many types of sensors deployed in
ities of data collection, why or why not to be notified, buildings to collect information about the occupant and
what type of information should be communicated, and thesurroundingenvironment,ourstudymainlyfocuseson
how they would like to receive these notifications. We the three types of smart devices that are popular and have
design three hypothetical scenarios based on common been demonstrated to be privacy-invasive, i.e., Bluetooth
IoT devices in smart buildings (i.e., Bluetooth beacons, beacons, cameras, and smart meters.
cameras, smart meters) to ask about participants’ privacy For Bluetooth beacons, Caesar et al. [7] demonstrated
notification preferences. thatBluetoothtechnologycanbeusedmaliciouslytotrack
Key Findings. Our results suggest that many par- occupantlocation.Forexample,asmartphonecanbeused
ticipants are unaware of or have misunderstandings of to secretly monitor nearby Bluetooth Mesh activity and
the data collection in smart commercial buildings. Even reference user location through transmissions, or an app
installedonsmartphonescanbeusedtotrackauserwithin Other work looked into the influence of friends and
a Bluetooth Mesh network. experts on privacy decisions [18]. These studies showed
For cameras, besides being able to identify users that participants were more influenced when their friends
directly, cameras also reveal information that might be denieddatacollectionthanwhentheirfriendsalloweddata
difficult or impossible to detect with the naked eye. For collection. In contrast, the participants were more influ-
example,Davisetal.[15]showedthataudiosignalscould enced when experts allowed collection than when experts
be extracted through motion magnification of video data. denied data collection. However, after being exposed to a
The same motion magnification technique has also been set of scenarios in which friends and experts allowed or
showntobeabletoextracthealth-relatedinformationfrom denied data collection, the participants were less likely to
users such as blood circulation [38]. be influenced in subsequent scenarios. Barbosa et al. [6]
For smart energy meters, Jazizadeh et al. [25] demon- presentedmachinelearningmodelstopredictpersonalized
strated how Non-Intrusive Load Monitoring (NILM), or privacy preferences in smart homes and identify factors
measuring electricity consumption using an energy meter that could change such preferences.
at the circuit level instead of the appliance level, can Several frameworks were proposed to help users to
still be disaggregated to extract signals of specific appli- enforce privacy protections on IoT devices. Apthorpe et
anceuseinhouseholdsandoccupantbehaviors.Although al. [4] presented a framework to discover the privacy
network communications among IoT devices can be en- norms in the smart home context. IoTWatch [5] allows
crypted to ensure privacy, Acar et al. [2] showed that an users to specify their privacy preferences at install time
adversary can exfiltrate sensitive data from the encrypted and ensure IoT apps’ behaviors match the selections.
traffic. Rondon et al. [36], [37] demonstrated different Kratos [40] provides smart home users with access con-
attacks on different layers of enterprise IoT systems in trol settings that consider multiple users and devices
smart buildings. in a shared space. Cejka et al. [8] presented potential
Besides, Babun et al. [1] provided an analysis of countermeasures for privacy issues of smart meters. Wu
popular IoT platforms in terms of how they handle vul- et al. [45] proposed a privacy-preserving framework to
nerabilities and possible solutions for these platforms. support sensor applications such as occupancy detection
Our work focuses on the occupants’ perspectives on IoT while ensuring user privacy. In contrast, our work con-
devices and their data collection in smart buildings. tributes new insights into smart building data collection
from occupants’ perspectives to support future designs of
systems and frameworks.
2.2. IoT Privacy
2.3. Privacy Notifications for IoT
There has been considerable literature investigating
the privacy preferences and factors that affect users’ pri-
vacy decision-making in IoT scenarios. Yao et al. [46], Privacy notifications are a type of privacy notice that
[47] conducted co-design studies to identify key factors informs people or users about the data being collected
for designing smart home privacy controls. In a broader and using practices of a system, product, or service.
context, Naeini et al. [30] showed that participants were They are often provided by entities responsible for the
morecomfortablewithdatacollectioninpublicratherthan discloseddatapractices(e.g.,datacollection,sharing,and
privatesettingsandweremorelikelytosharedataforuses processing), as increasing requirements by privacy regu-
that they find beneficial (e.g., find public restrooms). The lations around the world (e.g., GDPR [11], CCPA [32]).
collectionofbiometricdataisconsideredlesscomfortable Although privacy policies are the most common type of
than environmental data, and the participants wanted to privacy notice, they are lengthy and difficult to read [12],
be notified about the data practices of such information [31]. Instead, researchers and practitioners have proposed
being collected. Different from these previous studies, we more effective ways to notify people about data privacy
focusspecificallyonsmartcommercialbuildingoccupants practices,suchasconciseprivacynotices[16]andprivacy
rather than the general users and consider participants’ nutrition labels [17]. Moreover, Schaub et al. outlined a
background knowledge/confidence in IoT technology. We design space for more effective privacy notices [39].
also explore more detailed perceptions regarding notifica- User-facing privacy notifications, in addition to or in
tion preferences and how occupants want to be informed lieu of privacy policies, are very common in the digital
of data collection. Via in situ studies, some previous world. For example, websites have increasingly adopted
work found users’ privacy concerns or misunderstanding GDPR-compliant cookie banners, which automatically
of the facial recognition technology [48], [49] and fitness pop up when websites detect new users. These banners
tracker [42]. In particular, Zhang et al. [48], [49] studied usually contain a concise privacy notification describing
people’s notification preferences, including the frequency how the website uses cookies to track user data and how
of notifications. However, they did not explore modality users can disable some of them [10]. Another common
preferences such as emails versus mobile apps because example is the app permission management framework
people might not have an email address in the scenarios on smartphones. Both iOS and Android platforms send
they considered. Harper et al. [23] conducted an online users just-in-time notifications when apps are trying to
survey of 81 participants to understand their privacy con- access certain sensitive permission on smartphones, along
cerns in the smart building context, focusing on environ- withthechoicetoallowordeny.Thenotificationsinboth
mentaldatacollection.Ourworkconsidersalargerpoolof examplesaredeliveredtousersthroughprimarychannels,
participants, more types of smart devices, and occupants’ which is the same platform or device a user interacts
preferences for different notification schemes. with. Huang et al. [24] presented a tool that examines
network traffic in a smart home and informs the user of participants’ eligibility. If the participants had worked in
vulnerabilities or tracking services. an indoor workplace other than their home, they were
However, in IoT-embedded smart buildings, providing eligible to participate in our study.
people with effective privacy notices is extremely chal- We paid each participant $0.5 for completing our 1-
lenging. First, since smart buildings have countless IoT minute screening and followed up with 597 eligible par-
devices and sensors collecting data (e.g., energy sensors, ticipantsforourmainsurvey.Our mainsurvey(presented
lighting, temperature, air quality, etc.), it is possible that inSection3.3)tookapproximately9minutestocomplete,
thenumberofnotificationscanoverwhelmbuildingoccu- and each participant was paid $1.5 for completing it. The
pants and visitors. This may lead to privacy fatigue [9] if longest completion time was 52 minutes. The completion
usersreceivetoomanyirrelevantprivacynotices.Second, timeincludedthetimeittooktoreadandsigntheconsent
IoTdevicesandsensorsinsmartbuildingslacktraditional form.Prolificallowedaminimumpaymentrateof$8/hour
user interfaces (e.g., screens), so it is difficult to deliver and a recommended rate of $12/hour. Our payment rate
privacy notifications through the most intuitive primary was set to $12/hour, which matched the recommended
channels (i.e., IoT devices and sensors themselves). This amount on Prolific. Note that Prolific may request extra
means privacy notices need to rely on secondary or pub- paymentsbasedonthecompletiontime.Wealsoaskedour
lic channels (e.g., a website, or physical signs), causing participants to leave feedback (if any) for our study and
an additional barrier for residents or visitors to receive wereceivednocomplaintsfromourparticipantsregarding
them. Researchers have recently developed a location- the payment and survey length.
based mobile app, IoT Assistant, capable of notifying
peopleaboutnearbyIoTdataprivacyinpublicplaces[14], 3.2. Study Pretest
[19]. However, little research has examined what types of
IoT privacy notices people would like to receive and how Cognitive pretesting and pilot study are two common
to receive them. Therefore, our study aims to understand practicestoidentifypotentialissuesandbiasesinsurveys,
people’snotificationpreferencesforsmartbuildingscenar- such as priming wording or confusing questions, prior to
ios to inform the design of more effective privacy notices deployment [34]. We followed an iterative review process
in smart buildings. in which we repeated the process of running pilot studies
togetpreliminaryresultsaswellasfeedbackandimprov-
3. Methodology ing our survey design accordingly until no issues arose.
We also tested our survey by conducting cognitive
interviews with four university students and staff outside
Figure 1 shows an overview of our study workflow.
oftheresearchteamwhoarefromavarietyofdepartments
We describe our study protocol in detail in this section.
and backgrounds. During the interviews, the participants
In this study, our survey design aims to investigate the
thought out loud when taking the survey. We noted their
awareness and perceptions of data collection (RQ1), the
thought process and asked them to provide feedback for
notificationpreferences(RQ2)ofoccupantsinsmartcom-
each survey question (e.g., fixing confusing questions or
mercial buildings, and the factors that affect occupants’
adding more answer choices).
notification preferences (RQ3).
As a result, we improved the wording and formatting
of survey questions and added additional answer choices
tosomemultiple-choicequestions.Forexample,forques-
tions asking about the context/scenario we give, we high-
lighted the context/scenario (e.g., “at your workplace” or
“in the scenario”) to avoid misunderstanding according to
thesuggestionsfromthepilotstudy.Weexcludedthepilot
study data from our final results to avoid biases.
3.3. Survey Design
In this section, we describe how we design the survey
to answer the research questions.
Figure1.Overviewofthestudyprotocol.
3.3.1. Structure and Goals. The survey includes three
sections. In the first section, we started with questions to
3.1. Recruitment & Screening understand participants’ general perceptions and prefer-
ences in smart buildings. These questions include:
Our study was built via Qualtrics and posted on Pro- • Participants’awarenessofpotentialdatacollectionin
lific to recruit participants. To ensure the quality of the the smart buildings (answering RQ1);
responses, only people with at least a 95% approval rate • Background questions (e.g., confidence in IoT tech-
on Prolific were able to view our study. We also set up nology and knowledge of IoT), we analyze whether
Qualtrics to disallow retaking the survey. The participants the answers to the questions influence people’s pri-
were required to be adults who are 18 or older, fluent vacy notification preferences (answering RQ3);
in English, live in the US, and have or are working in • Pre-scenario questions for occupant’s general pri-
a commercial building physically (e.g., offices or retail vacynotificationpreferencesinthesmartcommercial
stores). We further conducted a screening to determine building setting (answering RQ2).
In the second section, we randomly show the partici- • Scenarios-based questions: To understand users’ per-
pants one of the three hypothetical scenarios of data col- ception of data collection, and privacy notification
lection. The three scenarios include common data collec- preferences, we designed three common data collec-
tion sensors (i.e., Bluetooth beacons, cameras, and smart tionscenariosfortheparticipantstocheckduringthe
meters). We then ask the participants the following two survey. Each scenario represents a type and purpose
sets of questions: of data collection with different devices typically
• Questions about their perceptions of data collection found in a smart commercial building. We study
in the scenario (answering RQ1); threedevices(Bluetoothbeacons,cameras,andsmart
• Post-scenario questions about their privacy notifica- meters) because they are popular data collection de-
tion preferences for the scenario (answering RQ2). vices in smart buildings and they collect personal
Notethatweusethesamesetofquestionsforthepre- data about individuals. Our goal is to study how the
scenario questions and post-scenario questions regarding perceptionsofdatacollectionandnotificationprefer-
their privacy notification preferences. The goal is to see ences differ across scenarios. We randomly assigned
whetherparticipants’preferenceswouldchangeafterthey the participants into three groups. Each group was
are exposed to the scenarios. presented with one of the three scenarios below:
Inthelastsection,weaskdemographicquestions.The – Scenario 1 (Bluetooth beacons): Suppose your
answers to these questions are used when we analyze the employer installs Bluetooth beacons (devices that
factors that impact people’s privacy notification choices wirelessly broadcast a unique identifier to nearby
(answering RQ3). electronic devices) at your workplace. These bea-
cons are used to collect location and movement
3.3.2. Detailed Survey Flow. In the following, we will information to understand how the space is used.)
explain the flow of our survey and how we collect re- – Scenario 2 (Cameras): Suppose your employer in-
sponses from the participants. stallsvideosurveillancecamerasatyourworkplace
• Questions about participants’ awareness of potential that collect photo/video footage to ensure work-
data collection in the smart buildings (answering place security.
RQ1) and background (answering RQ3): To under- – Scenario3(Smartmeters):Supposeyouremployer
stand the participants’ experience of working in a installssmartmetersatyourworkplacethatcollect
smartbuildingenvironment,wefirstaskthemtoself- data about human activities and resource usage
report if they work in a smart building. We present a (e.g., energy consumption, bathroom usage) to
setofsmartdevices(e.g.,cameras,sensors,smartTV, monitor and optimize the resource consumption.
etc.) and ask the participants to select what devices
• Questions about participants’ perception of data col-
they notice at their workplace. The participants are
lections (answering RQ1): After presenting the sce-
able to select multiple devices and have an “other”
nario descriptions, we asked the participants about
option to enter others. We then ask the participants
their perceptions of data access. In particular, they
to report if they are aware of the data collection at
were asked to select from a list of entities that
their workplace (Yes/No). Note that the answers to
could potentially (e.g., building manager, supervisor,
these questions are used for two analyses: (1) un-
government, etc.) have access to data about them,
derstandingparticipants’awarenessofdatacollection
who they are comfortable with, who they think will
(answering RQ1); (2) understanding if awareness of
benefitfromhavingaccesstothisdata,andselect/add
the data collection would impact people’s privacy
what purposes they think the data might be used
notification choices (answering RQ3).
for. We further reused the aforementioned series of
• Pre-scenario questions for users’ general privacy no- notification preferences questions to understand their
tificationreferences(answeringRQ2):Tounderstand
preferences specifically for the presented scenario.
our participants’ general notification preferences for
• Post-scenario questions about participants’ privacy
data collection in smart buildings, we used a series
notification preferences (answering RQ2): We repeat
of questions to identify whether they want to be
the questions about privacy notification preferences
notified, why/why not, what should be notified, and
in the pre-scenario section to check if users’ prefer-
how they want to be notified. First, we asked them
ences would be different for specific scenarios.
if they want to be notified about the presence of
• Demographics: Finally, we asked our participants a
the devices collecting data (Yes/No). We followed
set of demographic questions, including gender, age,
up with a free-text question to let them explain their
education, and income.
reasons.Wethenpresentedalistofinformationabout
data collection and asked the participants to select
3.4. Data Analysis
what they want to be notified of. Next, we presented
alistofnotificationmeans(e.g.,physicalsign,email,
mobile, etc.) and asked the participants to select the Our data includes multiple-choice (only 1 choice can
means of notification that they prefer. Note that for be selected), multiple-response (multiple choices can be
these multiple-choice questions, the participants can selected),5-pointLikertscale,andfree-textdatatypes.We
selectmultipleitemsandhavetheoptiontoenterad- used Chi-square test (for categorical data) and Kruskal-
ditional text answers. We later repeated this series of Wallis H test (for Likert scale data) to quantitatively
notificationpreferencesquestionsafterpresentingthe analyze the responses across 3 scenario groups. We also
scenarios to understand the participants’ preferences conducted follow-up Bonferroni post-hoc tests for identi-
specifically for each scenario. fying statistical significance from pair-wise comparisons.
For multiple-response questions, we coded each item then we present our detailed findings based on the three
into its variable holding a Yes or No value. Yes value research questions we listed.
means the participant selected the item and No means
otherwise. We then treated these new variables similarly 4.2. Participants
to those of multiple-choice questions.
For free-text responses, 4 researchers in our group
Screeningandvalidation:Wereceived800responses
independently coded a subset of the qualitative data. We
from our screening. 597 participants qualified for our
first developed and agreed on a code book to capture
screeningandreceivedourinvitationtothestudy.Eventu-
the themes. We then used this codebook to code the
ally, we received 564 responses for our main survey. We
data independently. Each entry in the dataset was coded
filteredoutinvalidresponsessuchasincompleteresponses
by 2 researchers. After finishing independent coding, we
(including meaningless ones that the participant entered
discussed the codes as a group to resolve conflicts and
only white spaces into all free-text answer boxes), and
finalize the codes.
responses that failed our attention checks. As a result,
we removed 8 invalid responses from our dataset. These
3.5. Ethical Considerations
removed responses include 6 duplicates and 2 attention-
check fails.
We worked closely with our Institutional Review
Considering participants whose workplace has IoT
Board (IRB) and iteratively updated our study protocol.
devices: As our study focuses on occupants in smart
Ourprotocoldidnotreceiveanyobligationsorconstraints
commercial buildings, we asked the participants to report
from the IRB. Before the study, we asked the participants
whatdevicestheynoticedattheirworkplace.Weincluded
toreadourconsentformcarefullyandsignittoparticipate
the “None” answer to filter out participants who had no
in the study. Participation in our study was voluntary and
experience with IoT devices at all. We excluded 64 such
anonymous. When collecting the data, we did not collect
responses from our dataset. Our final dataset includes
any personally identifiable information except for their
responses from 492 participants.
Prolific ID (a randomly-generated string of numbers and
letters)forpaymentpurposes.Alldatawassecurelystored
Responses Percentage
and could only be accessed by the research team. Our Gender
survey instrument is attached in Appendix B. Male 276 56.1%
Female 208 42.3%
Non-binary 7 1.4%
4. Results
Prefernottoanswer 1 <1%
Age
This section presents our findings from the user study 18-24 95 19.3%
and how they answer our research questions. 25-34 226 45.9%
35-44 118 24%
45-54 35 7.1%
4.1. Overview
55-64 14 2.8%
65andabove 4 <1%
Our study contributes to a new understanding of peo- Education
ple’s awareness, perceptions, and notification preferences Somehighschool 2 <1%
ofIoTdevicesandtheassociateddatacollectionbehaviors Highschoolgraduate 36 7.3%
Somecollege 87 17.7%
in commercial smart buildings. In general, we found that
Associate’sdegree 40 8.1%
about half of the participants reported being aware of
Bachelor’sdegree 207 42.1%
the data collection by IoT devices at their workplaces Graduatedegree 117 23.8%
whiletheotherhalfwereunaware.However,weobserved Prefernottoanswer 3 <1%
variances among participants’ perceptions regarding who Annualpersonalincome
Lessthan$10,000 42 8.5%
may access their data, whether they are comfortable with
10,000−24,999 75 15.2%
their data being accessed, and who might benefit from
25,000−49,999 125 25.4%
their data. 50,000−74,999 103 20.9%
Furthermore, we also unpacked our participants’ pref- 75,000−99,999 55 11.2%
erencesonwhethertheywouldliketoreceivenotification 100,000−149,999 48 9.8%
about their data collection, and if so, what information $150,000andgreater 33 6.7%
Prefernottoanswer 11 2.2%
theywouldliketoknowandhowtheywanttobenotified.
Our results highlight the need for notifications as over TABLE1.DEMOGRAPHICINFORMATION(GENDER,AGE,
90% of our participants want to be notified. However,
EDUCATION,ANDANNUALPERSONALINCOMEBEFORETAXES)OF
THEPARTICIPANTSINOURSAMPLE.
theyhavedifferentexpectationsofthenotificationcontent
andmodality,suggestingtheneedforcontext-anddevice-
dependent notification mechanisms. Demographic background: Among the 492 partici-
Our study also suggested a few factors that could pants, 56.1% are male, 42.3% are female, and less than
influence participants’ preferences of what and how no- 2% non-binary. Our participants skewed towards young
tifications should be delivered. For example, participants (45.9% are between 25 and 34), highly educated (42.1%
whowereawareoftheIoTdevices’datacollectionwould have Bachelor’s degree) people in the middle socio-
prefer to know how their collected data is used. economicclass(46.3%haveincomebetween$25,000and
Intheremainderofthissection,wefirstsummarizethe $74,999). Table 1 presents the descriptive statistics about
demographics and backgrounds of our study participants, the demographic background of our participants.
RegardingthebackgroundofIoTtechnologiesingen- Takeaway 1: Even though people notice IoT devices
eral, over 60% of our participants indicated a good level at their workplace, they are not aware of these devices
of confidence (i.e., above a rating of 3) with the IoT collecting data. Cameras are the most popular devices
technologies (e.g., voice assistants, smart security cam- that people notice at their workplaces. This indicates
eras, smartwatches, virtual reality, etc.). Most participants that the camera’s presences are very obvious to many
reported that they have an average (34.96%) and above- occupants in a smart commercial building setting. We
average (40.04%) understanding of IoT technologies. later present findings about occupants’ perceptions and
notification preferences of the camera’s data collection
In Appendix A, we present additional details about
scenario as compared to two other less obvious scenarios
participants’levelofconfidencewiththeIoTtechnologies
(i.e., Bluetooth beacon and smart meter).
and participants’ understanding of the IoT technologies
(Figure 5 and Figure 6).
4.3.2. Perceptions of data access. We further unpack
people’sperceptionsofdatacollectionfromthefollowing
three perspectives: (1) who do you think will have access
to your data, (2) who are you comfortable with having
4.3. Perceptions of Data Collection in Smart
accesstoyourdata,and(3)whodoyouthinkwillbenefit
Commercial Building (RQ1) from having access to your data. We provided a list of
entities relevant to data collection in smart buildings,
which included my building manager, my supervisor, the
government, the manufacturer of the devices, my com-
Our goal is to understand occupants’ perceptions of pany, and myself. We used Chi-square test to identify
datacollectioninsmartcommercialbuildings,identifying the significant associations between the scenario and the
potentialgapsbetweenoccupants’perceptionsandtheIoT selection of each entity. We also conducted a Bonferroni
data collection transparency. Our data suggested that the post-hocanalysistoidentifythespecificpairsofscenarios
participants reported different levels of understanding in that have a significant difference.
terms of the types of data collection at their workplaces. First, we find that the majority of participants
There is a discrepancy between what people think about (94.5%)thoughtthattheircompanywouldhaveaccess
IoT data collection and what it actually is. to data about them in all 3 scenarios. A few partici-
pants(11%)thoughtthatthey[themselves]wouldhave
access to their own data. We identify statistical signif-
icance for “My supervisor” (p = 0.002) and “The man-
4.3.1. Awareness of data collection. First, we want to ufacturer of the devices” (p = 0.000) across 3 scenarios.
understand if the occupants know of the data collection Specifically, for the “My supervisor” selection, our pair-
happening and what kinds of IoT devices they noticed wise comparison test shows that in the Bluetooth beacon
at their workplace. 52.44% of participants reported being scenario, significantly more participants thought that their
aware of the data collection at their workplace while the supervisor would have access to their data compared to
other 47.56% reported being unaware. We asked what the smart meter scenario (p=0.001). For the “The man-
devicestheynoticedattheirworkplace.Cameraswerethe ufacturer of the devices” selection, we find a significant
most popular device (selected by 76.83% of participants) difference between the camera scenario and each of the
thattheynoticedattheirworkplace.Amongdifferentsen- other two scenarios, i.e., significantly fewer participants
sors, most of our participants reported noticing tempera- in the camera scenario thought that the manufacturer of
turesensors,whiletheenergysensorwastheleastnoticed the devices would have access to the data as compared to
one. Figure 2 shows the percentage of responses for what the other 2 scenarios (p=0.000).
devices the participants noticed at their workplace. Second, we find that most participants felt com-
fortable with themselves (62.4%) and their company
(53.5%) having access to their data. For the Blue-
tooth beacon and smart meter scenarios, slightly more
participants were comfortable with themselves than with
their company having access to the data. For the camera
scenario, the numbers are equal. We find statistical sig-
nificance for “My building manager” (p = 0.005), “My
supervisor” (p = 0.027), and “The manufacturer of the
devices” (p = 0.000) across the 3 scenarios. For “My
building manager”, our pair-wise comparison test shows
that significantly fewer participants in the Bluetooth bea-
con scenario felt comfortable with the building manager
having access to their data compared to the smart meter
scenario (p = 0.003). For the “My supervisor” selection,
significantlymoreparticipantsinthecamerascenariowere
comfortable with their supervisor having access to their
data compared to the smart meter scenario (p = 0.022).
Figure 2. Participants’ responses to what devices they notice at their For “the manufacturer of the devices” selection, signifi-
workplace. cantly more participants in the smart meter scenario were
comfortable with the manufacturer of the devices having participants’ responses for what purposes they think the
access to their data compared to the camera (p = 0.000) collected data about them might be used.
and Bluetooth beacon (p=0.001).
Lastly, when asked about who they thought would
benefit from having access to their data, most partici-
pants thought that their company would. Only 15.4%
of participants thought that they would benefit from
having access to their own data. We find statistical
significance for “My building manager” (p = 0.002),
“My supervisor” (p = 0.000), and “The manufacturer
of the devices” (p = 0.002). Our pair-wise comparison
test indicates the significant difference between the smart
meter and each of the other two scenarios regarding
“My building manager” (camera: p = 0.003, Bluetooth
beacon: p = 0.012) and “My supervisor” (p = 0.001)
selections. Noticeably more people in the smart meter
scenario thought that the building manager would benefit
from having access to the data while the percentages Figure 3. Participants’ responses to “What purposes do you think data
aboutyoumightbeusedfor?”across3scenarios.Enforcingpoliciesis
were similar between the other two scenarios. In contrast,
themostpopularselectionforall3scenarios,whichindicatesthepar-
significantly fewer people in the smart meter scenario ticipantsmighthavemisconceptionsaboutthepurposesofthedevices.
thought that their supervisor would benefit from having
accesstothedataascomparedtotheothertwoscenarios. Takeaway 3: Interestingly, many participants may have
For the “the manufacturer of the devices” selection, we misunderstandings about the purposes of the data collec-
find a significant difference between the camera and each tion. 76.5% of the participants in the Bluetooth beacon
of the other two scenarios (smart meter: p = 0.004, scenariothoughtthatitsdatacollectionisusedforenforc-
Bluetooth beacon: p=0.013). Significantly fewer people ingpolicies.Eventhoughsomeparticipantsindicatedthat
in the camera scenario thought that the manufacturer of their understanding of IoT technologies, in general, is at
the devices would benefit from having access to the data. or above average, many of them still believe that the data
Takeaway 2: In a smart commercial building setting, collection in the three scenarios is for enforcing policy
occupants feel more comfortable with having access to purposes instead of for the functionalities of IoT devices.
their own data over other entities. However, most people Thismayindicateoneofthefollowing:1)participantsare
do not think that they have access to their own data, yet notfullyawareofthepurposeofdifferentIoTdevicesand
they would benefit from having access to their own data. they have a misunderstanding of how IoT devices work,
Besides, depending on the type of devices that collect or 2) they do not believe that the IoT devices are utilized
data, they have significantly different perceptions about for the same purposes as they are intended and designed.
what data are collected and who will benefit from such Thus,itisimportanttoinformpeopleaboutdatacollection
information.Buildingmanagers,supervisors,andtheman- purposes and data access when designing notifications.
ufacturers of the devices are the three entities that have
4.4. Notification Preferences for Data Collection
significant differences in terms of occupants’ perceptions
acrossthe3scenarios(i.e.,Bluetoothbeacon,camera,and in Smart Commercial Building (RQ2)
smart meter).
To understand participants’ preferences for notifica-
4.3.3. Perceived purposes of data collection. We then tions in smart commercial buildings, we used the follow-
asked the participants to select the purposes for that they ing questions regarding the presence of data collection:
think the collected data about them could be used. In • Do you want to be notified? Why and why not?
general, for all 3 scenarios, “enforcing policies” is the • What do you want to be notified about?
most selected purpose for data collection (over 75% of • How do you want to be notified?
participants). This is a surprising result since most of the Wefirstaskedthesethreequestionsatthebeginningofthe
time, enforcing policies is not what the collected data is survey to get a general overview of the participants’ no-
primarily used for. tification preferences. We then presented the hypothetical
Specifically, in the Bluetooth beacon scenario, “local- scenarios and asked these questions again to investigate
ization” is the least selected purpose, which is also an the participants’ notification preferences specifically for
interesting result because it is actually the primary usage thegivenscenario.Astheparticipantswererandomlypre-
of Bluetooth beacons. Instead, most participants thought sented with one of the three scenarios, we need to ensure
“enforcingpolicies”(76.5%)and“userprofiling”(71.6%) thattheparticipantsinthethreegroupshaveasimilarlevel
were the purposes of the Bluetooth beacon’s data collec- ofunderstandingofIoTtechnologiessothatwecanmake
tion.OneparticipantwasspecificallyconcernedthatBlue- a comparison among these three groups. We did not find
tooth beacons could get unauthorized access to his/her statistically significant differences among the participants
phone: “I would assume the Bluetooth beacon might also in the three groups, indicating that participants from all
beabletoaccessmyphonewithoutmerealizing(P272).” three groups have a similar level of IoT knowledge.
These results indicate people’s misconceptions and
lack of knowledge regarding the purposes of data collec- 4.4.1. Participants’ Notification Preferences. Next, we
tioninvariouscontexts.Figure3showsthepercentageof present participants’ responses to our questions regarding
whether they want to be notified about the data collection devices collecting data while 8.64% did not. Most people
andwhatinformationtheywanttoknowingeneralandin wanted to be notified of the purposes for which their
3scenarios.Table2listsallthemesfromtheparticipants’ data can be used. Participants wanted to be aware of
responses to why they want or do not want to be notified any sensitive info that could be inferred from the data:
about the data collection in each scenario. “That’s really creepy and I don’t want to be constantly
Generalcontext.Whenaskedwhethertheywanttobe tracked (P81).”, “I don’t want potentially embarrassing
notified about the presence of the devices collecting data infocollected,likehowoftenIusethebathroom(P261).”
aboutthemattheirworkplace,themajorityofparticipants Someparticipantsmentionedthatthedatacollectioncould
(90.65%) wanted to be notified and only 9.35% did not affect their job: “The Bluetooth beacon collects some
want to be notified. personal data about my performance by interacting with
The majority of participants wanted to be aware of other devices (P198).”, “So I can decide whether or not
the data collection. Privacy rights and the safety of the it’s a dealbreaker for me in keeping the job (P280).”
data were also considered important to the participants. The majority of people thought that data collected
A participant mentioned “I want to know how my infor- fromBluetoothbeaconswouldbeusedforenforcingpoli-
mation may be handled and if it will affect me in my ciesanduserprofiling.Afewparticipantsthoughtthatthe
personal life or my work life (P1).” Other participants data could be used for micromanagement, manipulation,
expressed privacy concerns such as “So I don’t get spied profitfromsellingtothirdparties,orimprovingworkspace
on without knowing. And being aware of how my facial efficiency. One participant mentioned “I want to know if
data is processed by my employer (P9).” A participant my actions are being monitored in some way and have
thoughtthathe/shewasalreadybeingspiedon:“Ialready the potential to be used against me (P1).”
know they are spying on us but I would at least like to
When asked about who would have access to the
know from where (P153).”
collected data, most people thought that their company
The few participants that did not want notifications
would have access to the collected data (95.7%) and that
thoughtthatthedatacollectionwouldnotaffectthemneg-
their company would benefit from having the data access
ativelyortrustedwhoeverhadaccesstothecollecteddata:
(87.7%). However, the majority of people (67.9%) were
“I don’t think it would affect my performance (P185).”,
comfortable with themselves rather than their company
“Doesn’tbothermemuch(P151).”,“Informationcollected
having access to the collected data. A participant was
bythecompanyisstrictlyofficialandhaslittleornothing
worried that someone else might know their private ac-
to do with my private life. This information also rests in
tivities: “If my whereabouts are being tracked, I want to
credible hands (P195).” Some others were confident that
know.Italsopreventspeoplefrombeingblindsidedwhen
they already knew how things work and that notifications
they’re confronted with information that they thought no
areunnecessary:“Ireallyunderstandhowitworks,Idon’t
one knew about because they were alone when they were
needanynotificationonthem(P138).”,“Ipersonallydon’t
doing it (going from A to B, spending too much time
feel it’s necessary and also me not knowing would allow
somewhere, etc.) (P73).”
me to work and act normally (P281).”
Scenario 2: Camera. 92.77% of our participants
Our data suggest 9 primary reasons why the partici-
wanted to be notified about the presence of the devices
pants wanted to be notified and 13 reasons why they did
collecting data while 7.23% did not. More people were
not want to be notified about the data collection. For ex-
interested in getting notified about who can access their
ample, increasing awareness of data collection by nearby
data and the purposes for which their data can be used.
smart devices remains the top reason why participants
In contrast to the other 2 scenarios, the participants were
wouldliketobenotified(n=246).Notably,68participants
moreconcernedabouttheirbehaviorsbeingmonitored.A
believed that they have privacy rights in the workplace;
fewparticipantsdidnotwanttheiractivitiestobewatched
as a result, they should be notified of any nearby data
by someone else: “So I don’t do something embarrassing
collection:“Nomatterwhatthatismyrighttobenotified”
while I think I am alone and no one but me will ever see
(P172), “It is one of the rights I have as an employee”
or know (P429).”
(P178), or “I believe it is unethical for a company to
record information about employees without first telling The majority of participants thought that camera data
them about and what information is collected (P196).” would be used for enforcing policies. One participant
For what people want to be notified about, we asked said: “Because if I do any mistake I will correct that
the participants to select from a list of different options (P45).” Many participants also selected user profiling as
before they saw the scenarios as well as after reading the purpose of using camera data. Some participants ex-
the scenarios: the presence of data collection, purposes pressed concerns about past experience with camera data
for which your data can be used, how your data can be collection: “I have been through abusive periods of my
used, for how long your data can be retained, and who life revolving heavily around cameras (P50).”
can access your data. The majority of the participants Themajorityofparticipants(95.2%)thoughtthattheir
(more than 89%) wanted to be notified about all of the company would have access to the collected data. Many
listed options. Fewer participants (78%) wanted to know peoplealsothoughttheirsupervisorandbuildingmanager
for how long their data can be retained. There were no would have access. Some mentioned the IT department
significantdifferencesinparticipants’preferencesonwhat andthesoftwareproviderofthecamera.Mostparticipants
they would like to be notified about across a general were comfortable with themselves and their company
context and 3 scenarios. having access to the collected camera data. Surprisingly,
Scenario 1: Bluetooth beacon. 91.36% of our par- more participants were comfortable with their company
ticipants wanted to be notified about the presence of the than themselves having access (56.6% vs 55.4%). Some
Number of responses
Question Categories
General Bluetooth beacon Camera Smart meter
Awareness of data collection 248 73 84 79
Privacy rights/Ethics 71 23 31 20
General concerns/curiosity 40 29 21 31
Privacy violation 38 16 13 7
Why notified Pay attention to their behavior 36 13 24 12
Ensure safety of their data 24 10 11 4
Trust/Communication/Interaction 18 20 18 8
Ownership of their own data 12 18 14 23
Understand the associated benefits 4 5 2 1
No violation/negative effects 7 1 0 1
Nothing to hide 5 2 1 1
Understand how it works 4 2 1 0
Unnecessary/Not useful 4 2 4 10
Burdensome/It will worry me more 4 1 0 3
Feel comfortable with devices around 3 0 0 1
Just don’t want 3 0 2 7
Why not notified
Not sensitive 2 1 0 2
It makes no difference in my behavior 2 1 0 0
No control anyways 2 1 0 0
Employer’s privilege 2 0 0 1
Won’t get enough info 1 0 0 0
Not related to privacy 1 1 1 5
Private property 0 1 0 0
TABLE2.CATEGORIESOFQUALITATIVERESPONSESREGARDINGREASONSWHYTHEPARTICIPANTSWANTEDORDIDNOTWANTTOBE
NOTIFIEDABOUTDATACOLLECTION
mentioned that they would like to get help with loss to crossing that bridge of going too far for me at least.
prevention or in case of theft occurs. I’d like to know what they are tracking/watching if I am
Although the participants would like to get help with an employee (P36).”
loss prevention from their company, a few thought that In this scenario, most participants (92.7%) thought
they themselves would benefit from having access to the that their company would have access to the collected
collected data (16.9%). Significantly more participants data. A few participants (13.4%) thought that they them-
thought that their company would benefit from having selves would have access. When asked about who they
access to the data (86.1%). are comfortable with having the access, more participants
Scenario 3: Smart meter. 81.71% of our participants selected“Myself”than“Mycompany”(64.0%vs45.7%)
wanted to be notified about the presence of the devices which indicates that people preferred to have access to
collecting data while 18.29% did not. More people were their data besides the company. However, the majority
interested in getting notified about who can access their of participants (86.0%) still thought that their company
data and the purposes for which their data can be used. wouldbenefitfromit.Oneparticipantaddedthatwhoever
In contrast to the other 2 scenarios, more participants bought the collected data would benefit from it.
worriedabouttheownershipoftheirdata.Mostsaidthatit Takeaway 4: In general, most people (90.65% of par-
istheirrighttoknowabouttheirowndatabeingcollected: ticipants) preferred to be notified about the presence of
“Becauseit’smydataanditshouldbelongtome(P241).” the devices collecting data about them at their workplace.
or “I feel it is my right to have access to the information Across 3 scenarios, participants’ desire for notification
that is gathered about me (P109).” Most people who did is consistent in Bluetooth beacon and camera scenarios.
not want to be notified thought that it is not necessary However, about 10% fewer participants wanted to be
or not useful: “I feel it’s of no need to enable me to notifiedinthesmartmeterscenario,suggestingthatfewer
know the presence. I feel it’s right to let it do its work people are concerned about smart meter data collection.
without myself having to feel its presence (P11).” Some For all 3 scenarios, participants expressed their prefer-
participants thought the data collection was not related ence for notification of all information about the data
to privacy: “Data based on resource consumption is not collection activity that we listed. Noticeably, participants
really privacy related (P7).” in the Camera scenario were more interested in knowing
Surprisingly,enforcingpoliciesisthepurposeofusing whether their behaviors were being tracked, while those
the collected data that most participants thought. Notice- in the Smart meter scenario were more interested in the
ably fewer people selected “improving smart devices” ownership of the collected data. The results indicate the
which is actually the main purpose of smart meter data importance of transparency in data collection.
collection. A few people mentioned tracking resource
usage and intimidation as the purposes of using smart 4.4.2. Participants’ Notification Methods Choices.
meter data. Some participants expressed concerns about Next, we present the participants’ preferences of noti-
being monitored: “It feels like they are getting very close fication methods for data collection in general and in
3 scenarios. Figure 4 show the percentage of what the Takeaway5:Emailandphysicalsignsweregenerallythe
participants wanted to be notified about and how they most preferred means of notification for data collection
wanted to be notified, respectively for 3 scenario groups. in smart commercial buildings. However, one-size-fits-all
should not be the strategy for notification. Fewer partic-
ipants preferred physical signs for the smart meter sce-
nario, which is significantly different from the other two
scenarios. Therefore, a flexible selection of notification
strategies (e.g., device-specific strategies) may be needed
to inform occupants about the type and purpose of data
collection by different IoT devices in smart commercial
buildings.
4.5. Potential Factors for Notification Preferences
in Smart Commercial Building (RQ3)
In this section, we discuss factors that may influence
people’s notification preferences for different IoT devices
in smart buildings. Specifically, we focus on the follow-
ing three factors: participants’ awareness, confidence, and
understanding of IoT devices in smart buildings based on
Figure 4. Participants’ preferences for how they wanted to be notified
participants’ responses to the pre-scenario questions (i.e.,
across3scenarios.
general context).
Email is the most popular choice across all scenar- 4.5.1. Awareness of data collection. We asked the par-
ios and in general. 69% of participants selected email as ticipants whether they were aware of the data collection
theirpreferrednotificationmethod.Notably,theamountof at their workplace. 52.44% reported being aware, and
participants who preferred Email method is significantly 47.56% reported being unaware. We further find that
larger than other methods. One participant says “I want 91.5%withintheawaregroupand89.74%ofparticipants
to be notified of how my data is being gathered via email within the unaware group reported wanting to be notified
on a weekly basis (P113).” about the presence of data collection. This indicates that
most occupants in smart commercial buildings may have
MobileAppissurprisinglytheleastselectedchoice.
concerns about their data being collected and thus want
Only 33% of participants preferred to be notified via
to be able to keep track of the data collection activities
mobile app. This choice has a significantly lower number
around them. It also confirms the importance of imple-
of participants as compared to email (69%), physical
menting notifications of data collection in commercial
sign (51%), and website (49%). Although mobile app has
buildings to provide transparency.
been a popular method of notification [41], our finding
Our result shows that the participants do not have
shows that participants do not prefer to receive mobile
significantly different notification preferences regardless
app notifications for smart commercial building context.
of whether they are aware or unaware of data collection
Physical Sign is more preferred in the Bluetooth around them. However, regarding what people want to be
beacon scenario and the Camera scenario. Our statis- notified about, we observed that about 4% more partic-
tical test shows a significant difference for the “physical ipants in the aware group selected “How your data can
sign” option between the smart meter scenario and the be used”, while for the other choices, there are slightly
othertwoscenarios(p=0.006),as 6%fewerparticipants more participants (less than 4%) in the unaware group.
preferred physical sign in the smart meter scenario. Regarding how people want to be notified, the response
percentage for the physical sign is similar between the
In-person notification is suggested in the Bluetooth
twogroups.Mobileapp(about6%moreparticipants)and
beacon scenario and the Smart meter scenario. Other
website (about 2% more participants) are more preferred
thanindirectnotifications,participantsinthesetwoscenar-
in the aware group, while email (about 7% more partici-
ios also suggested having their supervisor or people from
pants) and paper document (about 3% more participants)
upper management notify them in person about the data
are more preferred in the unaware group.
collection (n = 5). We did not find anyone suggesting this
method in the Camera scenario. However, in the Camera
4.5.2. Confidence with IoT. We used a 5-point Lik-
scenario,oneparticipantsuggestedimplementingawritten
ert scale question to ask about participants’ confidence
policy document.
levels with IoT technologies. For analysis purposes, we
Across different means of notification, participants categorized “1-Extremely unconfident” and “2-Somewhat
strongly preferred to be notified about the presence of unconfident” into the unconfident group, “3-Neither con-
acamera.Participants’negativeexperienceswithcameras fident nor unconfident” into the neutral group, and “4-
could cause such preference. For example, one partici- Somewhat confident” and “5-Extremely confident” into
pantspecificallymentionedtheirbadpastexperiencewith the confident group. As a result, we had 16.3% (80 out
camera data collection as the reason why they wanted of 492) unconfident, 16.3% (80 out of 492) neutral, and
notification: “I have been through abusive periods of my 67.5% (332 out of 492) confident responses. We further
life revolving heavily around cameras (P50).” found that the majority of participants within each group
(96.3% in unconfident, 92.5% in neutral, and 88.9% in Takeaway6:Insmartcommercialbuildings,transparency
confident) wanted to be notified about the presence of of data collection is crucial. Even if people are aware of
devices collecting data. This result suggests that even the data collection, are confident with IoT technologies,
though people are confident with IoT technologies in or are knowledgeable about IoT, they are still more likely
general, they still prefer to be notified about the data to prefer receiving notifications about the data collection
collection around them. activities. The less confident people are with IoT tech-
Regarding what people want to be notified of, we nologies, the more information about data collection they
found statistical significance (p = 0.001) for “Pres- want to be notified of. Regarding means of notification,
ence of data collection”, “How your data can be used” peoplewhoclaimtobeconfidentwithIoTtechnologyand
(p = 0.043), “For how long your data can be retained” peoplewhoclaimtohaveanabove-averageunderstanding
(p=0.000),and“Whocanaccessyourdata”(p=0.038). of IoT tend to prefer mobile app over other means. This
For all of this data collection information, our pair-wise indicates the need for a flexible notification strategy that
comparisonfurthershowsasignificantdifferencebetween considers the background of the users.
theconfidentgroupandtheunconfidentgroup(p=0.002,
p = 0.039, p = 0.000, respectively). Across all infor- 5. Discussion
mation about data collection, fewer participants in the
confident group wanted to be notified as compared to the In this section, we discuss the implications of privacy
other two groups. regulations and how our findings inform the design and
Regarding how people want to be notified, we did operation of smart commercial buildings. We focus on
not find any statistical significance for the three groups. how to inform and notify people about the type of data
However, we observed that slightly more participants in thatisbeingcollected,whomayhaveaccesstotheirdata,
the unconfident group preferred the other means of no- andhowtheycanbebetterinchargeoftheirowndata.We
tification (i.e., physical sign, website, email, and paper further discuss the limitations of our study and potential
document) rather than mobile app. There are about 12% future work.
more participants in the confident group for mobile app
selection than in the unconfident group. 5.1. Policy Implications
4.5.3. Understanding of IoT. We used a 5-point Lik- Recentprivacyregulationsaroundtheworld,including
ert scale question to ask the participants how they theEuropeanUnion’sGeneralDataProtectionRegulation
would describe their understanding of the IoT. For analy- (GDPR) and California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA),
sis purposes, we categorized “1-No understanding” and lay the legal foundation for consumers to have control
“2-Below average” into the below-average group, “3- over the use and sharing of their personal information
Average” as the average group, and “4-Above aver- that businesses collect from them. Devices and systems
age”and“5-Strongunderstanding”intotheabove-average that collect and use personal data about smart building
group.Thus,wehad6.9%(34outof492)belowaverage, occupants include: electronic access systems (such as
35% (172 out of 492) average, and 58.1% (286 out of smart entrances for exterior access points like gates and
492) above average. We further found that the majority garages),thermostats,lighting,heatingventilationaircon-
of participants within each group (97% in the below- ditioning (HVAC), sensors, voice recognition, and cam-
average group, 90.1% in the average, and 90.2% in the eras.Businesseshavetoinformconsumersabouttheirdata
above-average group) wanted to be notified about the collection practices at or before the point of collection.
presenceofdevicescollectingdata.Thisresultshowsthat Regardless of the method of collection, smart building
even though people claimed to have an average or above- ownersmustensurevisitorsandguestsarepresentedwith
averageunderstandingofIoTtechnologies,theystillwant clearandconcisenoticeofthecollection,use,andsharing
notifications about the data collection around them. of their personal information.
These laws lead to the fact that more respect and
Regarding what people want to be notified about,
protection are being given to people’s personal data, even
we did not find any statistical significance for the three
at a heavy cost [26]. Therefore, to truly capitalize on the
groups. However, across all information about data col-
promise and benefits of smart buildings, it is not enough
lection, we observed that there were slightly more par-
tominimizethedatacollectedandlimitthepurposeofthe
ticipants in the below-average group who wanted to be
data collection. Smart buildings need to take into account
notified. It is understandable that people with a below-
the occupants’ privacy preferences and background to
average understanding of IoT may want to be notified of
determine a respectful way to notify occupants of what
more information about data collection.
data is being collected, how the collected data is utilized,
Regarding how people want to be notified, we identi-
and who has access to this data.
fied statistical significance for “mobile app” (p = 0.009)
and “email” (p = 0.021). For both of these means of
5.2. KeyDesignstoImproveSmartBuildingData
notification, our pair-wise comparison shows a significant
difference between the average group and the above- Collection Transparency
averagegroup(p=0.018,p=0.049,respectively).More
participants in the above-average group preferred mobile We detail our insights for designing data collection
appfornotification,whilemoreparticipantsinthebelow- systems in smart commercial building settings as follows.
average group preferred email, physical sign, and paper Occupants in smart commercial buildings may
document options. be affected by legal ramifications as compared to
occupants in private smart homes. In particular, for users need to rely on an additional device, and installing
smart homes, the owners can agree on installing IoT an app also takes some effort.
devicesthatcollecttheirdataandhavecontroloverthem. In terms of what to notify the occupants, people
However, this may not apply to people working in smart seem to be less interested in: 1) data collected by
commercialbuildingswheretherearemuchmorecomplex smart meters, and 2) the duration with which data
interactions. It could lead to the fact that these occupants is retained. These results indicate that if a designer is
may not be aware of the data collection in the building looking to reduce fatigue by minimizing the amount of
where they work, and even if they are aware, they may information in the notification, information about sensors
have misunderstandings of the data collection activities. similar to smart meters and duration information can be
As shown in our study results, we found that nearly thefirstcandidatestoeliminate.Whenlookingatthetypes
half of the participants (47.56%) were not aware of the of users, we found that factors such as confidence about
collectionofidentifiabledataaboutthem.Thisresultindi- IoT and IoT knowledge impact users’ privacy notification
cates that data collection in a smart commercial building preferences in different data collection scenarios. These
is opaque to the occupants. The majority of participants results indicate that a notification system can likely take
(90.65%) reported that they wanted to be notified about advantage of a user’s self-reported understanding and
thepresenceofdevicescollectingdataaboutthemintheir confidenceofIoTstotailorthenotificationrateforprivacy
work environment. Thus, to improve the smart building updates and changes.
People consider certain locations in the building
occupant experience, notifications about data collection
(e.g., bathrooms) as private spaces where data should
activities should be carefully considered when planning
not be collected. Some participants mentioned that they
to deploy IoT devices.
do not want to be recognized while using the bathroom
Occupants in smart commercial buildings also have
as there is no privacy. Even in the smart meter scenario,
more concerns about their privacy as compared to those
participants were okay with water use tracking but were
in smart homes: “For starters, in my own home I can
hesitant about collecting data in private areas. Some par-
controlwhat’sgoingonregardingmyownelectronics.At
ticipants in this scenario mentioned that water usage is
my job I’m at the mercy of what the board/tech commit-
not so much of a big deal, but they do not like the
tee/whoever would make this decision, I think I at least
idea of someone keeping track of their bathroom usage.
deserve to know how my privacy is going to be violated.
They further explained that it would be embarrassing if
Also, all the HIPAA implications that would come with
a supervisor or manager came by and questioned their
having all or at least a large part of conversations in
usage. These results might indicate that smart building
the building being listened to at all times.” Some were
managers should consider setting different policies for
uncomfortable with being monitored at their workplace
data collection in public, semi-public, and private spaces
and that could affect their productivity: “The data seems
in smart buildings.
to be not related directly to my job, and I fear it could be
It is important for smart buildings to create a
used against me at some point. It feels like every aspect
fiduciary relationship with their occupants by aligning
of my being is being monitored, and it does not create a
interests. Our findings (Section 4.3.2) indicate that many
comfortable environment. The camera sensor bothers me
occupants feel the IoT data collection in smart buildings
less than things like an energy sensor, because I know
benefits others (e.g., building managers, employers) more
I am not doing anything that I would not like to be on
than themselves, which may lead to common negative
camera,Iamdoingmyjobwell.It’stherandominfothat
perceptions or misconceptions around unwanted surveil-
makesmeuncomfortable,andIwonderjustwhatisbeing
lance. Although some of our participants recognized the
done with it.”
potential personal benefits of such IoT data collection, it
Notifications by email is consistently the most isnotcurrentlyfeasibleforthemtotakefulladvantageof
preferred method for the participant’s preference on the data being collected. To improve the acceptance and
how to be notified across scenario and confidence resolve potential privacy concerns, it is critical for smart
groups. On the contrary, notification by mobile app is building managers to create a fiduciary relationship with
one of the lowest rated methods. This result shows a very occupants by aligning the interests of both parties.
different notification preference as compared to a smart We recommend that smart buildings should ensure
home environment where people preferred mobile app occupantsareawareoftheirpersonalbenefitsfromvarious
notification the most [41]. Although notification by email IoT data collection, which could be conveyed through
ispreferredinthesmartcommercialbuildingcontext,itis effective privacy notifications in occupants’ preferred for-
important to note that email notification is only practical mats. Also, necessary software infrastructure (e.g., APIs)
in scenarios where all data subjects can have their email that enables occupants to access and take advantage of
addresses registered for notifications. certain collected IoT data for their personal benefits will
We suspect that the amount of user effort involved in contribute to building such a fiduciary relationship.
receivingnotificationsisoneofthedecidingfactorsinthe
smart commercial building context. For example, emails 5.3. Limitations and Future Work
require the least amount of user effort in the professional
context, given that email is the most common way of Our study has some limitations. First, our results rely
communication at work. Similarly, physical signs, web- on participants’ self-reported data. To mitigate the bias,
sites, or paper documents likely will not require the users we cross-checked participants’ answers throughout the
to actively do anything to subscribe to the notifications. survey to ensure their responses were consistent, indicat-
However, to receive notifications through a mobile app, ing a satisfactory level of trustworthiness regarding their
preferences. Second, we used hypothetical scenarios in Acknowledgements
our study to prompt participants’ preferences, and the
preferencescanvarybasedoncontext.Third,someofour This research was supported in part by the National
participantsmaynothaveexperiencewithsmartbuildings Science Foundation (NSF) Secure and Trustworthy Com-
based on our definition. However, it is worth noting that puting program (Grants CNS-1801316, CNS-2320903).
in the survey, we asked whether participants had seen Other grants supporting this research included NSF CNS
any smart devices in their building. The results indicated 2114074, NSF OAC 2002985, NSF CNS 1943100, NSF
that the majority of our participants came across some OAC1920462,NSFCNS2323105,andGoogleResearch
IoT devices at their workplaces. Lastly, some participants Scholar Award. The US Government is authorized to
may be biased due to the same questions regarding their reproduce and distribute reprints for Governmental pur-
preferences before and after we presented the scenarios. poses,notwithstandinganycopyrightnoticesthereon.The
Our study in this paper focuses on smart commer- views and conclusions contained herein are those of the
cial building occupants in the US. However, as more authors and should not be interpreted as representing
countries and regions deploy smart building technology the official policies or endorsements, either expressed or
in real-world settings, future studies can consider cross- implied of the US Government or other funding agencies.
cultural perspectives. For example, our finding regarding This research was also partially funded by an internal
occupants’ perceptions of data access can be further ex- grant at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.
tended to identify the differences based on different work We thank Clay Ford from UVA Stat Lab for providing
cultures and regulations. Additionally, future work can statistical consulting and UVA Link Lab for providing
potentially do a field study to further explore people’s feedbackonthestudydesign.Wealsothankourshepherd
notificationpreferencesinrealsmartbuildingsettingsthat andanonymousreviewersfortheirconstructivecomments
considerdifferentcontexts.Itisalsointerestingtoexplore on this research.
workplace monitoring or tension between employees and
employers. Some small-scale interviews or case studies References
at different types of smart building workplaces would be
ideal to collect such data. [1] A survey on iot platforms: Communication, security, and privacy
Our study is the necessary step toward designing a perspectives. ComputerNetworks,192,June2021.
more effective data collection and disclosure scheme for [2] AbbasAcar,HosseinFereidooni,TigistAbera,AmitKumarSikder,
Markus Miettinen, Hidayet Aksu, Mauro Conti, Ahmad-Reza
smart buildings. Future research can look into building
Sadeghi, and Selcuk Uluagac. Peek-a-boo: I see your smart
personalized notification systems for data collection in home activities, even encrypted! In Proceedings of the 13th
smart buildings. However, a complex multi-stakeholder ACMConferenceonSecurityandPrivacyinWirelessandMobile
environment could be a big challenge to deploying such Networks,WiSec’20,page207–218,NewYork,NY,USA,2020.
AssociationforComputingMachinery.
personalized systems. Thus, exploring the complex rela-
tionships and potential conflicts between different stake- [3] Joseph G Allen and John D Macomber. Healthy buildings: How
indoor spaces drive performance and productivity. Harvard Uni-
holders in the smart building context is also important.
versityPress,2020.
[4] Noah Apthorpe, Yan Shvartzshnaider, Arunesh Mathur, Dillon
6. Conclusion
Reisman, and Nick Feamster. Discovering smart home internet
ofthingsprivacynormsusingcontextualintegrity. 2(2),jul2018.
Smart buildings and their applications are becoming [5] LeonardoBabun,Z.BerkayCelik,PatrickMcDaniel,andA.Sel-
more popular in urban areas around the world. They cuk Uluagac. Real-time analysis of privacy-(un)aware iot ap-
increasingly adopt IoT technologies to manage their re- plications. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies,
2021(1):145–166,2021.
sourcesandservices.Largedeploymentsofinterconnected
[6] Nata˜ Miccael Barbosa, Joon Sung Park, Yaxing Yao, and Yang
sensors, actuators, and smart devices in smart buildings
Wang. “whatif?”predictingindividualusers’smarthomeprivacy
improve productivity and user experience across appli- preferencesandtheirchanges. ProceedingsonPrivacyEnhancing
cation domains. However, this means pervasive, multi- Technologies,2019:211–231,2019.
modal, continuous, and scalable data collection in such a [7] Matthias Caesar and Jan Steffan. A location privacy analysis of
semi-public space. This is also an underexplored domain. bluetoothmesh. JournalofInformationSecurityandApplications,
Therefore, our goal in this study is to understand the 54:102563,2020.
occupants’ perceptions of data collection and their notifi- [8] Stephan Cejka, Felix Knorr, and Florian Kintzler. Privacy issues
insmartbuildingsbyexamplesinsmartmetering. 2019.
cationpreferencesfordifferentdatacollectionscenariosin
smartcommercialbuildings.Weconductauserstudywith [9] Hanbyul Choi, Jonghwa Park, and Yoonhyuk Jung. The role of
privacy fatigue in online privacy behavior. Computers in Human
492 participants who are occupants of smart commercial
Behavior,81:42–51,2018.
buildings.Ouranalysisresultsshowthatmanyparticipants
[10] CookieYes. Gdpr cookie consent banner examples, November
(47.56%)areunawareofthedatacollection,andemailis, 2019.
in general, the most preferred means of notification. We
[11] Council of European Union. General data protection regulation.
also find that people have different preferences for notifi- https://gdpr-infor.eu,2016.
cations whenthey facedifferent datacollection scenarios. [12] Lorrie Faith Cranor. Necessary but not sufficient: Standardized
Our findings will help guide the design and implementa- mechanisms for privacy notice and choice. J. on Telecomm. &
tionofprivacy-relatednotificationsinsmartbuildingsand HighTech.L.,10:273,2012.
increase occupants’ awareness of the nearby data collec- [13] Stefany Cruz, Logan Danek, Shinan Liu, Christopher Kraemer,
Zixin Wang, Nick Feamster, Danny Yuxing Huang, Yaxing Yao,
tion. In the bigger picture, future smart cities can use the
andJosiahHester.Augmentedreality’spotentialforidentifyingand
insights from this research to develop privacy-respecting
mitigating home privacy leaks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.11998,
infrastructure and effective notification schemes. 2023.
[14] Anupam Das, Martin Degeling, Daniel Smullen, and Norman [32] Office of the California Attorney General. California
Sadeh. Personalized privacy assistants for the internet of consumer privacy act (ccpa): First modified regulations.
things: Providing users with notice and choice. IEEE Pervasive https://oag.ca.gov/sites/all/files/agweb/pdfs/privacy/ccpa-text-
Computing,17(3):35–46,2018. of-mod-clean-020720.pdf,2020.
[15] AbeDavis,MichaelRubinstein,NealWadhwa,GauthamJMysore, [33] Primal Pappachan, Martin Degeling, Roberto Yus, Anupam Das,
Fredo Durand, and William T Freeman. The visual microphone: Sruti Bhagavatula, William Melicher, Pardis Emami Naeini,
Passiverecoveryofsoundfromvideo. 2014. ShikunZhang,LujoBauer,AlfredKobsa,SharadMehrotra,Nor-
man Sadeh, and Nalini Venkatasubramanian. Towards privacy-
[16] Nico Ebert, Kurt Alexander Ackermann, and Bjo¨rn Scheppler.
aware smart buildings: Capturing, communicating, and enforc-
Bolderisbetter:Raisinguserawarenessthroughsalientandconcise
ing privacy policies and preferences. In 2017 IEEE 37th
privacy notices. In Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on
International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems
HumanFactorsinComputingSystems,pages1–12,2021.
Workshops(ICDCSW),pages193–198,2017.
[17] Pardis Emami-Naeini, Yuvraj Agarwal, Lorrie Faith Cranor, and
[34] StanleyPresser,MickP.Couper,JudithT.Lessler,ElizabethMar-
HananHibshi. Asktheexperts:Whatshouldbeonaniotprivacy
tin,JeanMartin,JenniferM.Rothgeb,andEleanorSinger.Methods
and security label? In 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and
forTestingandEvaluatingSurveyQuestions,chapter1,pages1–
Privacy(SP),pages447–464.IEEE,2020.
22. JohnWiley&Sons,Ltd,2004.
[18] PardisEmamiNaeini,MartinDegeling,LujoBauer,RichardChow,
[35] Jingjing Ren, Daniel J. Dubois, David Choffnes, Anna Maria
Lorrie Faith Cranor, Mohammad Reza Haghighat, and Heather
Mandalari, Roman Kolcun, and Hamed Haddadi. Information
Patterson.Theinfluenceoffriendsandexpertsonprivacydecision
exposurefromconsumeriotdevices:Amultidimensional,network-
making in iot scenarios. Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact.,
informed measurement approach. In Proceedings of the Internet
2(CSCW),November2018.
MeasurementConference,IMC’19,page267–279,NewYork,NY,
[19] YuanyuanFeng,YaxingYao,andNormanSadeh. Adesignspace USA,2019.AssociationforComputingMachinery.
for privacy choices: Towards meaningful privacy control in the
[36] LuisPucheRondon,LeonardoBabun,AhmetAris,KemalAkkaya,
internetofthings. InProceedingsofthe2021CHIConferenceon
and A. Selcuk Uluagac. Survey on enterprise internet-of-things
HumanFactorsinComputingSystems,pages1–16,2021.
systems(e-iot):Asecurityperspective,2021.
[20] MG Figueiro, B Steverson, J Heerwagen, R Yucel, C Roohan,
L Sahin, K Kampschroer, and MS Rea. Light, entrainment and [37] LuisPucheRondon,LeonardoBabun,AhmetAris,KemalAkkaya,
alertness:Acasestudyinoffices.LightingResearch&Technology, and Arif Selcuk Uluagac. Poisonivy: (in)secure practices of en-
52(6):736–750,2020. terprise iot systems in smart buildings. Proceedings of the 7th
ACM International Conference on Systems for Energy-Efficient
[21] Michelle Goddard. The eu general data protection regulation Buildings,Cities,andTransportation,2020.
(gdpr):Europeanregulationthathasaglobalimpact. International
JournalofMarketResearch,59(6):703–705,2017. [38] Michael Rubinstein et al. Analysis and visualization of temporal
variations in video. PhD thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
[22] EricGoldman. Anintroductiontothecaliforniaconsumerprivacy nology,2014.
act(ccpa). SantaClaraUniv.LegalStudiesResearchPaper,2020.
[39] Florian Schaub, Rebecca Balebako, Adam L Durity, and Lor-
[23] ScottHarper,MaryamMehrnezhad,andJohnMace. Userprivacy rieFaithCranor. Adesignspaceforeffectiveprivacynotices. In
concerns in commercial smart buildings. Journal of Computer EleventhSymposiumOnUsablePrivacyandSecurity({SOUPS}
Security,(Preprint):1–33,2022. 2015),pages1–17,2015.
[24] Danny Yuxing Huang, Noah Apthorpe, Frank Li, Gunes Acar, [40] Amit Kumar Sikder, Leonardo Babun, Z. Berkay Celik, Ab-
andNickFeamster. Iotinspector:Crowdsourcinglabelednetwork bas Acar, Hidayet Aksu, Patrick Mcdaniel, Engin Kirda, and
trafficfromsmarthomedevicesatscale.Proc.ACMInteract.Mob. ArifSelcukUluagac.Kratos:multi-usermulti-device-awareaccess
WearableUbiquitousTechnol.,4(2),jun2020. control system for the smart home. Proceedings of the 13th
[25] FarrokhJazizadeh,BurcinBecerik-Gerber,MarioBerges,andLu- ACMConferenceonSecurityandPrivacyinWirelessandMobile
cio Soibelman. An unsupervised hierarchical clustering based Networks,2020.
heuristic algorithm for facilitated training of electricity consump- [41] ParthKirankumarThakkar,ShijingHe,ShiyuXu,DannyYuxing
tion disaggregation systems. Advanced Engineering Informatics, Huang, and Yaxing Yao. “it would probably turn into a social
28(4):311–326,2014. faux-pas”:Users’andbystanders’preferencesofprivacyawareness
[26] Jennifer Huddleston. The price of privacy: The impact mechanismsinsmarthomes.InCHIConferenceonHumanFactors
of strict data regulations on innovation and more. https: inComputingSystems,pages1–13,2022.
//www.americanactionforum.org/insight/the-price-of-privacy-the-
[42] Lev Velykoivanenko, Kavous Salehzadeh Niksirat, Noe´ Zufferey,
impact-of-strict-data-regulations-on-innovation-and-more/,2021.
Mathias Humbert, Ke´vin Huguenin, and Mauro Cherubini. Are
[27] Haojian Jin, Boyuan Guo, Rituparna Roychoudhury, Yaxing Yao, thosestepsworthyourprivacy?fitness-trackerusers’perceptionsof
SwarunKumar,YuvrajAgarwal,andJasonIHong. Exploringthe privacyandutility.Proc.ACMInteract.Mob.WearableUbiquitous
needsofusersforsupportingprivacy-protectivebehaviorsinsmart Technol.,5(4),dec2022.
homes. In Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human
[43] Alexandra Voit, Dominik Weber, Yomna Abdelrahman, Marie
FactorsinComputingSystems,pages1–19,2022.
Salm, Paweł W. Woz´niak, Katrin Wolf, Stefan Schneegass, and
[28] HeatherRichterLipford,MadihaTabassum,ParitoshBahirat,Yax- NielsHenze. Exploringnon-urgentsmarthomenotificationsusing
ingYao,andBartPKnijnenburg.Privacyandtheinternetofthings. asmartplantsystem. In19thInternationalConferenceonMobile
ModernSocio-TechnicalPerspectivesonPrivacy,page233,2022. and Ubiquitous Multimedia, MUM ’20, page 47–58, New York,
NY,USA,2020.AssociationforComputingMachinery.
[29] JiakangLu,TamimSookoor,VijaySrinivasan,GeGao,BrianHol-
ben,JohnStankovic,EricField,andKaminWhitehouse.Thesmart [44] Andreas Wagner, William O’Brien, and Bing Dong. Exploring
thermostat:usingoccupancysensorstosaveenergyinhomes. In occupant behavior in buildings. Wagner, A., O’Brien, W., Dong,
Proceedingsofthe8thACMconferenceonembeddednetworked B.,Eds,2018.
sensorsystems,pages211–224,2010.
[45] Tong Wu, Murtadha Aldeer, Tahiya Chowdhury, Amber Haynes,
[30] Pardis Emami Naeini, Sruti Bhagavatula, Hana Habib, Martin Fateme Nikseresht, Mahsa Pahlavikhah Varnosfaderani, Jiechao
Degeling, Lujo Bauer, Lorrie Faith Cranor, and Norman Sadeh. Gao, Arsalan Heydarian, Brad Campbell, and Jorge Ortiz. The
Privacyexpectationsandpreferencesinaniotworld.InThirteenth smart building privacy challenge. In Proceedings of the 8th
SymposiumonUsablePrivacyandSecurity(SOUPS2017),pages ACM International Conference on Systems for Energy-Efficient
399–412,SantaClara,CA,July2017.USENIXAssociation. Buildings,Cities,andTransportation,pages238–239,2021.
[31] AnneOeldorf-HirschandJonathanAObar.Overwhelming,impor- [46] YaxingYao,JustinReedBasdeo,SmirityKaushik,andYangWang.
tant,irrelevant:Termsofserviceandprivacypolicyreadingamong Defendingmycastle:Aco-designstudyofprivacymechanismsfor
olderadults. InProceedingsofthe10thInternationalConference smarthomes.InProceedingsofthe2019chiconferenceonhuman
onSocialMediaandSociety,pages166–173,2019. factorsincomputingsystems,pages1–12,2019.
B. Survey Instrument
[47] YaxingYao,JustinReedBasdeo,OrianaRosataMcdonough,and
YangWang.Privacyperceptionsanddesignsofbystandersinsmart
homes.ProceedingsoftheACMonHuman-ComputerInteraction,
B.1. Screening
3(CSCW):1–24,2019.
[48] Shikun Zhang, Yuanyuan Feng, Lujo Bauer, Lorrie Faith Cranor,
Anupam Das, and Norman Sadeh. “did you know this camera 1. Which of the following working environments
tracksyourmood?”:Understandingprivacyexpectationsandpref- best describe where you have worked in or are
erences in the age of video analytics. Proceedings on Privacy currently working in? (Choose all that apply)
EnhancingTechnologies,2021(2):282–304,2021.
I work from home
[49] ShikunZhang,YuanyuanFeng,andNormanSadeh.Facialrecogni- I have a private office to myself
(cid:50)
tion:Understandingprivacyconcernsandattitudesacrossincreas-
I share a private office with some colleagues
ingly diverse deployment scenarios. In Seventeenth Symposium (cid:50)
I work in an open workspace with a designated
on Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS 2021), pages 243–262, (cid:50)
2021. (cid:50) desk
I work in an open workspace without a desig-
A. Background Details of Participants (cid:50) nated desk
I work outdoors
Iworkinaretail/servicesector(e.g.,restaurants,
In Figure 5 and Figure 6, we show participants’ level (cid:50)
retail stores, grocery stores)
of confidence with the IoT technologies and participants’ (cid:50)
Other:
understanding of the IoT technologies, respectively.
(cid:50)
B.2. Main Survey
— Background and Awareness Questions —
2. What devices do you notice at your workplace?
(Choose all that apply)
Camera
Motion sensor
(cid:50)
Energy sensor
(cid:50)
Water sensor
(cid:50)
Light sensor
(cid:50)
Temperature sensor
(cid:50)
Smart TV
(cid:50)
Smart speaker
(cid:50)
Other:
(cid:50)
None
(cid:50)
3.(cid:50)Are you aware of the devices’ data collections
at your workplace?
Yes
Figure5.Participants’levelofconfidencewiththeIoTtechnologieson (cid:50) No
a5-likertscale(1-Extremelyunconfidentto5-Extremelyconfident).
—(cid:50)Perception of Data Collection Questions —
• Scenario 1 (Bluetooth beacons): Suppose your em-
ployer installs Bluetooth beacons (devices that wire-
lessly broadcast a unique identifier to nearby elec-
tronicdevices)atyourworkplace.Thesebeaconsare
used to collect location and movement information
to understand how the space is being used.)
• Scenario 2 (Cameras): Suppose your employer in-
stalls video surveillance cameras at your workplace
that collect photo/video footage to ensure workplace
security.
• Scenario 3 (Smart meters): Suppose your employer
installs smart meters at your workplace that collect
data about human activities and resource usage (e.g.,
energyconsumption,bathroomusage)tomonitorand
optimize the building’s resource consumption.
4. In the scenario, who do you think will have
access to the collected data about you? (Choose
all that apply)
My building manager
My supervisor
Figure 6. Participants’ understanding of the IoT technologies on a 5- (cid:50)
likertscale(1-Nounderstandingto5-Strongunderstanding). (cid:50) The government
The manufacturer of the devices
(cid:50)
(cid:50)
My company — Demographic Information —
(cid:50) Myself 12. With which gender identity do you most iden-
(cid:50) Other: tify?
5.(cid:50)In the scenario, who are you comfortable with Male
having access to the collected data about you? Female
(cid:50)
(Choose all that apply) Other:
(cid:50)
My building manager Prefer not to answer
(cid:50)
(cid:50) My supervisor 13.(cid:50)What is your age group?
(cid:50) The government 18 - 24 years old
(cid:50) The manufacturer of the devices (cid:50) 25 - 34 years old
(cid:50) My company (cid:50) 35 - 44 years old
(cid:50) Myself (cid:50) 45 - 54 years old
(cid:50) Other: (cid:50) 55 - 64 years old
6.(cid:50)In the scenario, who do you think will benefit
(cid:50)
65 - 74 years old
from having access to the collected data about 75 years or older
(cid:50)
you? (Choose all that apply) Prefer not to answer
(cid:50)
My building manager 14.(cid:50)What is the highest level of education you have
(cid:50) My supervisor completed?
(cid:50) The government Some high school
(cid:50) The manufacturer of the devices (cid:50) High school graduate
(cid:50) My company (cid:50) Some college
(cid:50) Myself (cid:50) Associate’s degree (2-year college)
(cid:50) Other: (cid:50) Bachelor’s degree (4-year college)
7.(cid:50)In the scenario, which of the following purposes
(cid:50)
Graduate degree (Masters, PhD, MD, JD, etc.)
doyouthinkthecollecteddataaboutyoumight Other:
(cid:50)
be used for? (Choose all that apply) Prefer not to answer
(cid:50)
User profiling 15.(cid:50)What is your annual personal income before
(cid:50) Localization taxes (USD)?
(cid:50) Enforcing policies Less than $10,000
(cid:50) Improving smart devices (cid:50) $10,000 - $24,999
(cid:50) Other: (cid:50) $25,000 - $49,999
(cid:50) None (cid:50) $50,000 - $74,999
(cid:50)— Notification Preferences Questions —
(cid:50)
$75,000 - $99,999
Notethatforpost-scenario,wereplace“atyourwork- $100,000 - $149,999
(cid:50)
place” with “in the scenario” to apply the context. $150,000 and greater
(cid:50)
8. Do you want to be notified about the presence (cid:50) Prefer not to answer
of the devices collecting data about you at your (cid:50) — Confidence and Understanding —
workplace? 16. How confident are you with the Internet of
Yes Things technologies in general (e.g., voice as-
(cid:50) No sistants, smart security camera, drones, smart
9.(cid:50)Pleasebrieflyexplainwhyyouwant(orwhyyou watches, virtual reality glass, etc.)?
don’t want) to be notified: Extremely unconfident
Somewhat unconfident
(cid:50)
10. At your workplace, which of the following do (cid:50) Neither confident nor unconfident
you want to be notified about? (Choose all that (cid:50) Somewhat confident
apply) (cid:50) Extremely confident
Presence of data collection (including types of 17.(cid:50)How would you describe your understanding of
data being collected) the Internet of Things?
(cid:50)
Purposes for which your data can be used No understanding
(cid:50) How your data can be used (cid:50) Below average
(cid:50) For how long your data can be retained (cid:50) Average
(cid:50) Who can access your data (cid:50) Above average
(cid:50) None of the above (cid:50) Strong understanding
11.(cid:50)How do you want to be notified? (Choose all (cid:50)
that apply)
Physical sign
Mobile app
(cid:50)
Website
(cid:50)
Email
(cid:50)
Paper document
(cid:50)
Other:
(cid:50)
(cid:50)
