Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6,4(11).'1179-1187 1179
Journal of Zhejiang University SCIENCE i: ii
ISSN 1009-3095
http://www.zju .edu.cn/j zus
E-mail: jzus@zju.edu.cn
: .... II
Machines as readers: A solution to the copyright problem
SHAMOS Michael I.
(School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA)
(Department of Computer Science, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China)
E-mail: shamos@cs.cmu.edu
Received Aug. 5, 2005; revision accepted Sept. 10, 2005
Abstract: Copyright and its international complications have presented a significant barrier to the Universal Digital Library
(UDL)'s mission to digitize all the published works of mankind and make them available throughout the world. We discuss the
effect of existing copyright treaties and various proposals, such as compulsory licensing and the public lending right that would
allow access to copyrighted works without requiring permission of their owners. We argue that these schemes are ineffective for
purposes of the UDL. Instead, making use of the international consensus that copyright does not protect facts, information or
processes, we propose to scan works digitally to extract their intellectual content, and then generate by machine synthetic works
that capture this content, and then translate the generated works automatically into multiple languages and distribute them free of
copyright restriction.
Key words: Universal Digital Library (UDL), Copyright, Digital rights management, Compulsory license, Berne convention,
Public lending right, Synthetic documents, Machine translation
doi: 10.1631/jzus.2005.A1179 Document code: A CLC number: TP391
INTRODUCTION published since Man began writing them. Something
over half of them can be found in the combined li-
Everyone associated with digital libraries, and braries of the world. As of September 2005, OCLC's
especially participants in the joint China-India-USA WorldCat listed over 57 million records on items
Million Book Project, assumes that it will be benefi- spanning the last 3 000 years. While 100 million
cial to mankind to digitize all the works ever pub- books is a vast corpus, if digitized it would be easily
lished and make them available over the Internet, manageable with present technology. Even assuming
whether for fee or otherwise. However, it is difficult that each book requires 100 MB of memory, the total
to find a clear printed agenda explaining how society storage requirement would be 109 GB. With current
will be enriched aside from the obvious advantages of retail prices for disk storage hovering at $0.50 U.S.
preservation, indexing and efficient digital distribu- per GB in small quantity, the total cost would be
tion. I propose that the ultimate impact of a Universal under $500 million to store every book ever written,
Digital Library (UDL) cannot be realized unless which is much less than the original cost of purchas-
computers are able to read, process, paraphrase and ing, scanning or even storing one copy of each of
translate its contents. The reasons involve copyright them 1.
law, human behavior and the limitations of our cog- The question I want to address is how to use such
nitive power to assimilate information. a corpus once it is created. One of our central prob-
It is estimated that 100 million books have been lems as a society is how to allow developing nations
to reap the benefit of the world's technological de-
velopments. The challenge of feeding the world,
The typical cost to store a book in a circulating library, all charges
included, is about U.S. $6.00 per book per y,e ar. At this rate, the digital providing it with fresh water and keeping it healthy
storage would be paid for in a month. depends on distribution of knowledge in usable form
1180 Shamos /J Zhejiang Univ SCl 2005 6.4(11):1179-1187
to people who need it. For example, the spread of pleasure from reading for other purposes. The joy of
modem farming techniques to areas of chronic famine reading poetry, or novels, or even well-expressed
or overpopulation would be of incalculable value. technical material, will continue unabated as it has for
This requires much more than distributing copies of thousands of years. Satisfying an appetite for pleasure
English books on agriculture to people who cannot is not one of the principal objectives of the Universal
read English. Yet the historical function of libraries Digital Library, however. Its greater concern must
has been primarily to allow selected populations to ultimately be for those who need information and
view or borrow a small set of chosen publications. knowledge for practical purposes to better themselves,
The media visionary Marshall McLuhan ob- and this implies a far different manner of use of its
served that the first use of new technology is imitation content.
of the old. History is so replete with examples of this The reality is that most references humans make
phenomenon that no one seems to have asked whether to textual materials are not the result of large-scale
it is simply an observed human reaction or a funda- reading or assimilation, as one might observe in col-
mental necessity. It appears to be fundamental. When lege students reading assigned textbooks, but are in
a new technology becomes available, it cannot dis- the form of directed lookup, that is, the result of
place the old unless it is able to replicate every one of search. When one has a question, one needs the an-
the old functions. Otherwise, it will not be adopted. swer, and often does not have sufficient time to read
This creates a low threshold for acceptance. All the entire works to obtain it. The farmer who needs to rid
new technology must do is to duplicate the old, pos- his field of a specific pest is not interested in the his-
sibly faster, cheaper or with enhanced performance, tory of agriculture, nor even of prescriptions for kill-
and it is likely to be embraced. There is no economic ing the multitude of insect species that have plagued
imperative to have it do more than that. farmers for centuries. He wants to know what to do
Translating McLuhan's maxim into the digital today to solve his problem, and that is a search ques-
library context, we can expect that the first large tion.
digital libraries will simply replicate traditional ones. If the answer is contained in one paragraph of
That is, they will accumulate carefully selected works, one book written in a foreign language, the farmer is
index them, and deliver them, or allow them to be not interested in paying for a full translation of the
viewed, under controlled conditions to authorized foreign book into his own language so he can read the
patrons. The indexing will be excellent and the de- relevant paragraph. He just wants the answer. Un-
livery remarkably rapid, but nothing reallynew will fortunately, the copyright system does not provide an
happen. While this is undoubtedly a desirable de- efficient mechanism to allow him to pay the propor-
velopment, I seriously question the degree to which it tional value of the text he wants to read in comparison
will benefit mankind. with the price of the whole work. Under the present
The reason is that mere access to books does not mechanism, he must locate the book, which is cur-
solve societal problems. The lifetime reading capacity rently not easy unless it has been digitized, then either
of a human being is about 3 000 books. This assumes buy or borrow the book and commission of translation
reading one book per week for 60 years. A very dili- of the portion he desires. It is illegal for his library to
gent reader might push the number to 10 000 books in make a digital copy of the paragraph available to him
a lifetime, which is still only 1/100 of one percent of without permission of the copyright owner, and the
what has been published. And how much can the cost of even asking for such permission will often
reader actually assimilate from all this reading that exceed the price of the work.
will train him for a new job, improve his crop yields That method might succeed if copies of books
or teach him mathematics? were always readily and cheaply available. The UDL
It is important here to distinguish reading for can eventually scan all public domain 1 works to solve
part of the problem. Without the need to restrict dis-
tribution or account for royalties, every literary work
"Public domain" is an often misunderstood term that means "free of on Earth or any portion of any such work will be free
copyright and available for any otherwise legal use without charge." It
to us all. This is a major advance.
does not simply mean "accessible to the public".
Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187 1181
However, because of the gradual lengthening of to the use of their works irl such a manner. A secon-
copyright terms around the world, particularly in the dary problem is that the OPIC proposal does not ad-
United States, which has extended the term consid- dress uses of the work other than manufacture and
erably beyond what is required by international con- distribution of whole copies.
ventions, by far the majority of works so far published
on Earth are still in copyright. To estimate the per-
centage at 90% would not be amiss. Of even greater COPYRIGHT ISSUES
concern is that technological materials having the
most relevance are very recent and hence most likely It is clear that copyright is a major impediment to
to be in copyright. the development of digital libraries. There is also
Even copyright itself would not be such a huge considerable uncertainty in most countries as to the
problem were it not for the fact that a large percentage scope of fair use of copyrighted works and it is un-
of works that are still in copyright are out of print. certain whether any form of digitization, even just for
This puts the potential user in an impossible situation. indexing, is permissible. Even in the United States,
Even if he is willing and able to buy the book, he which has produced the most extensive set of legal
literally cannot do so. The publisher is unable to determination on this issue, there is still reluctance by
supply a copy, and to duplicate a library copy would small organizations to test the limits of the law.
constitute copyright infringement. Even if the poten- To demonstrate that the question does not admit
tial user were willing to risk an infringement suit, the of a simple answer, consider scanning a copyrighted
UDL cannot put itself in the position of contributing work only for the purpose of developing an online
to the infringement. keyword index of its text. The U.S. Digital Millen-
Prof. Raj Reddy of Carnegie Mellon University, nium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides that, under
who conceived of the UDL, has suggested that own- specified conditions, a "service provider shall not be
ers of out-of-print works ought to consent to an ar- liable ... for infringement of copyright by reason of
rangement in which a user of out-of-print the provider referring or linking users to an online
in-copyright (OPIC) material would pay a fee to location containing infringing material or infringing
download or print it, which would be split between activity, by using information location tools, includ-
the UDL and the owner. In case the user wanted a ing a directory, index, reference, pointer, or hypertext
hard copy of the work, the need could be satisfied by link... ''~. This is the statutory justification for
an on-demand printing house that would sell him a large-scale indexes. Even if the index points to an
single copy (produced from the digital version at the infringing copy of a work, the indexer is not liable
UDL). The proceeds would be divided among the unless it knows of the infringement.
owner, the UDL and the printing house. One might assume that, if it is legal to create an
This solution has encountered obstacles, the index of a copyrighted work, it ought to be legal to
foremost of which I refer to as the "Titanic" problem. distribute the index to others. The index itself is not
Numerous books on the sinking of the Titanic have copyrightable, and, after all, others would be privi-
appeared since 1912. Most go out of print in short leged to generate an index themselves, so what could
order. Others, such as Walter Lord's "A Night to be improper about sharing indexes? The difficulty is
Remember," became best-sellers before sales dimin- that an index to a work, which typically contains the
ished to a negligible level. When the movie "Titanic" exact position of every word in the work, can be used
was released in 1997, several of these books returned to reconstruct the work in its entirety, and distributing
to the best-seller list. The publishers argue that if they the entire index, as opposed to simply allowing online
had a revenue-sharing contract with the UDL, they queries, can be regarded as equivalent to distributing
would miss out on the revenue spike associated with the work itself.
such events. A digital library site has great difficulty com-
The result is that most publishers will not agree plying with copyright law, even if it wants to. A first
problem is that it is extremely hard to determine
I 17 U.S.C. w whether a work is still subject to copyright, and, if so,
1182 Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187
who the copyright owner might be. In the U.S., dili- meantime, development is proceeding rapidly on
gent examination of copyright registration and re- digital rights management (DRM) technology, which
newal records is insufficient to produce an answer, copyright owners expect will make piracy impossible.
even for works for which registration was sought. I believe this to be a futile hope. Any work in-
Since the elimination of copyright formalities by tended for humans must be presented in a form that
international agreement, there is no office or database the human senses can perceive. For books and videos,
to which one might refer that gives the copyright this means that the content must be visible. For music,
status of a work. One reason is that the ownership of it must be audible. Therefore, at the point that the
copyright may have been transferred to another party. digital material is transformed into analog form for
While such transfers must be in writing, there is no presentation to the human, it can be captured. It
requirement that the Copyright Office, the repository cannot be protected from capture because the brain
of copyright records, need be informed of the transfer. does not have a direct digital interface. The unen-
There is thus no place one may look for a definitive crypted signals must go through the air so the content
determination of ownership, so a digitizer who wants can be acquired by the human. This is the reason that
to seek permission is frustrated form doing so. DRM is doomed to failure. Nevertheless, it will surely
Suppose one learns that a work is still in copy- present barriers to the use of digital materials.
right, but copyright owner no longer exists or cannot
be located. Is it legal to copy the work, or is it simply
taking a risk that is unlikely to produce adverse con- COMPULSORY LICENSING
sequences?
Different solutions to the copyright problem
have been proposed. Some are promising only within
PIRACY McLuhan's inhibitory prescription, that is, so long as
the lending library model dominates. The United
The book world has remained remarkably un- Kingdom has implemented a "public lending right",
scathed by the sort of digital piracy that has plagued (PLR) which recognizes the fundamental unfairness
the movie and record industries. There is no Napster of purchasing one copy of a book, placing it in a
for books. I believe that the reason is not a low level public library, and having large numbers of people
of interest in reading, but the fact that it is still painful benefit from it through borrowing without any addi-
to read from computer terminals while it is not at all tional payment to the copyright owner. The owner is
difficult to watch DVDs or listen to music on digital compensated only once, at the initial purchase of the
devices. book. The UK Parliament each year allocates money
The situation will change radically when an to a common fund, the proceeds of which are dis-
electronic book (eBook) artifact is available that tributed to copyright owners on a pro rata basis de-
mimics the properties of a paperback book, namely pending on how often each book is checked out of
the ability to flip and bend pages, mark one's place, public libraries. The success of the scheme depends,
write notes in the margins and put it in a convenient of course, on the amount allocated. It might be de
pocket. Of course, this device will be able to store minimis, or it might constitute a windfall.
10 000 books (by our count, requiring less than a Regardless, the measurement is based on
Terabyte)--a lifetime supply for our diligent reader. checking out entire books and is unable to measure
Alas, McLuhan tells us that the first of these will do partial uses, such as repeated reading of a single
little more than pretend they are traditional books--at critical paragraph or section. However, the public
least until they win acceptance. lending right is increasing in popularity around the
Once the true eBook exists, the publishing in- world, as it deserves to be, since it corrects a basic
dustry will fight precisely the same battle now being inequity.
waged by music and movie companies: it will be The digital analog of a public lending right is
impossible to put the e-genie back in the bottle and difficult to formulate, since it, too, suffers from an
piracy will run rampant in this domain as well. In the inability to measure, or provide compensation for,
Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SC! 2005 6A(I I): I179-1187 1183
partial uses. A critical assumption underlying the PLR Of course the difficulty with any compulsory
is that the publisher benefits from revenue for each licensing scheme is collecting revenue and managing
copy of the work that is placed in a library, and that payments. If governments were to contribute sub-
each copy can only be lent out to one person at a time. stantial amounts of money to a common fund to pay
Therefore, if the demand for a book increases, more copyright owners for the use of their works, the
libraries will have to buy it, and the publisher will problem would be far simpler. Few, if any, govern-
benefit directly. ments understand that paving the information high-
This assumption does not hold for digital works. way is as important as maintaining the traditional one.
One copy in digital form can be distributed at essen-
tially no cost to an arbitrary number of users in es-
sentially no time. Furthermore, many users will only SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS
want to view, use or download only a single page
from a lengthy work, and even if proportional com- Possibly the most persuasive argument against
pensation were provided to the publisher, the result copyright arises when the use of the law acts in a
might be unfairly low. manner directly contrary to its stated intent. The un-
A different sort of solution is the compulsory derpinning of copyright law in the U.S. is the clause
license. This is a permission to reproduce copyrighted in the Constitution giving Congress the power to
material which the owner cannot refuse, but the user enact copyright legislation: "Congress shall have
must pay for. How much the user pays can be deter- power ... to promote the progress of science and
mined by a statutory formula, as in the United States, useful arts by securing for limited times to authors
or by an independent tribunal, as in Japan. and inventors the exclusive right to their respective
The U.S. has an effective, but narrowly limited, writings and discoveries" (Pollack, 2002). The term
compulsory licensing scheme for two kinds of works: "science," as used at the time, was not restricted to
phonorecords of copyrighted songs and redistribution scientific activity as we now understand it, but re-
of television signals over cable systems. Anyone who ferred to learned studies in general. The definition is
wishes to sell copies of a sound recording of a song thus broader than it might appear.
may do so without prior permission by simply noti- The Constitutional purpose behind copyright is
fying the copyright owner and remitting a statutory inhibited if publishers &scientific material are able to
royalty based on the length of the song and the keep the results of research out of the hands of aca-
number of copies produced 1. demics by charging exorbitant (actually, prohibitive)
These compulsory licenses work because the prices for scientific journals. An extreme example is
quantum of use is easily measurable--it is determined Elsevier's oft-cited journal Brain Research, whose
by the number of copies made and the duration of the one-year subscription price for 2005 was U.S.
work. However, no ancillary rights are included in the $23 483, as reported on the company's website.
compulsory license, such as the right to make deriva- Few would begrudge a publisher the opportunity
tive works like translations. Again, it is difficult to see to make a profit, and although the number of sub-
what the digital equivalent of such a license would scribers to Brain Research is undoubtedly low, the
encompass since there is no useful digital analog of economics of academic journal publishing set it apart
"copy". in that the authors, reviewers and editors receive no
The Japanese compulsory license is much more compensation for their work---only the publisher gets
extensive, but also more cumbersome. A far larger paid--and the original purpose for which the work
category of works is subject to compulsory licensing, was created, which is to achieve widespread dis-
but the royalty is determined by an adjudicatory body semination rather than earn money, is thwarted, and
rather than statute, which introduces delay and un- even choked off, by the fee structure.
certainty in the process. There was a time when scholars were completely
dependent on print publishers to distribute their work,
and many researchers remember a day when they
The royalty in the U.S. for each copy as of January 1, 2006 will be
1.75 cents per minute with a minimum payment of 9 cents per song. would await anxiously the arrival in the post of the
1184 Shamos / J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187
next issue of a journal in their field. Print publication were copyrightable, then the owner might extract a
to achieve dissemination is no longer required, or royalty from anyone who published such an instruc-
even efficient. What costs $23 483 to buy on paper tion until the expiration of copyright, in effect grant-
costs $0 to produce on the Internet, since everyone ing the protection afforded by a patent, but for a much
connected with the creation of a paper works for free. longer period of time. Since this is undesirable, the
Publishers now typically require camera-ready copy idea and expression are said to merge into the idea
of papers, or at least an electronic format, so even the alone, and no copyright protection is possible.
typesetting is without charge. This means that the
useful business future for expensive print journals can
be measured by an hourglass, and I hope their death
can be hastened by the UDL. INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT AGREEMENTS
Copyright law is largely territorial--acts that
THE IDEA/EXPRESSION DICHOTOMY take place in a given country are subject to the copy-
right law of that country and no others 2 (Pa, 2000).
As a general rule, subject to international com- However, large numbers of nations have entered into
plexities discussed below, copyright law does not a series of treaties that provide for certain minimum
protect ideas, facts, or processes, but only the manner levels of copyright protection and accord to foreign-
in which they are expressed. For example, the U.S. ers the same level of protection as that provided to
Copyright Act states, "In no case does copyright nationals of the country, a concept referred to as "na-
protection for an original work of authorship extend tional treatment." The principal agreements are the
to any idea, procedure, process, system, method of Beme Convention, the Universal Copyright Conven-
operation, concept, principle, or discovery, regardless tion (UCC), the Paris Convention for the Protection of
of the form in which it is described, explained, illus- Industrial Property, the WIPO Copyright Treaty and
trated, or embodied in such work ''1. This is a won- the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intel-
derful exception, since what we want from copy- lectual Property Rights (TRIPS). Any sort of analysis
righted works for the purpose of practical benefit to of the effect of these agreements on copyright law
mankind is precisely what is uncopyrightable, namely around the world is far beyond the scope of this article,
the knowledge, ideas, concepts and operational in- save for two points: the treatment of ideas vs. ex-
structions they contain. The question, explored below, pression and compulsory licensing.
is the extent to which the uncopyrightability of ideas The Paris Convention of 1883 established an
is recognized outside the U.S. international union now known as the World Intel-
In some cases, facts or ideas admit essentially of lectual Property Organization (WIPO), which cur-
only one possible expression. In such cases, the idea rently has 169 members. The Paris Convention itself
wins out over expression and the expression becomes does not address copyright, but the Berne Convention,
uncopyrightable according to the doctrine of administered by WIPO and having 156 signatories,
"idea/expression merger". To hold otherwise would does so. The WIPO Copyright Treaty (WCT), which
allow the discoverer of a fact to obtain a monopoly modifies the Berne Convention, has 56 members. The
over it for the full term of copyright. For example, UCC has been adopted by 64 nations. TRIPS is an
suppose someone discovered that "eating peaches agreement between WIPO and the World Trade Or-
cures cancer" and published a pamphlet containing ganization (WTO), which has 148 members. China,
that phrase. All ways of expressing that discovery are India and the U.S. are signatories to all of these
essentially equivalent. In the parlance of copyright agreements except that China and India have not
law, they are "substantially similar". If the phrase ratified the WCT.
The Berne Convention specifically allows na-
tions to impose compulsory licenses on certain types
17 U.S.C. w (b). of works (e.g., musical works), forbids such licenses
2 Exceptions are recognized when acts committed in one country result
on others (e.g. cinema) and is silent on other works
in infringement in another country.
Shamos /J Zhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6A(11):1179-1187 1185
such as literary works, including books and computer such". Even though China and India are not signato-
programs (where they are copyrightable). ries to the WCT, TRIPS contains an equivalent pro-
The UCC does not address copyright in ideas, vision. As we shall see, these treaty provisions fur-
but contains several clauses intended to promote nish a legal pathway to universal benefit from the
compulsory licensing. For example, Article V allows UDL.
signatory countries to grant a compulsory license to
make translations. This is a very important license
since without it no one has an independent right to
translate a work. The practical effect of keeping the RESPONSE TO COPYRIGHT
right of translation with the copyright owner is to
vastly restrict the spread and utility of the vast ma- The foregoing sections have been a lengthy
jority of works. Even if the publisher has no interest in prelude to my central proposal, which is that since
publishing a Polish translation of a French work, a copyright poses so many obstacles to the goals of the
Polish citizen cannot do so without permission 1, and UDL, and we cannot ignore copyright, the only al-
thus for the entire term of copyright the work will ternative is to circumvent it.
remain inaccessible to Poles. Various proposals have been made to modify the
The ability to have works translated is essential to copyright statutes in various ways to promote assis-
the goals of the UDL. Unfortunately, the UCC only tance to developing nations, such as expanding the
permits compulsory licenses--it does not mandate scope of compulsory licenses, relating license fees to
them, and relatively few nations have enacted a com- a nation's per capita income, providing tax benefits to
pulsory license for translation. As a general principle, donors who dedicate their copyrights to the public
where intellectual property treaties specifically allow domain, implementing micropayment schemes to
wealthy nations to grant benefits to poor nations, they provide compensation for partial use of a work, and
decline to do so, and the effect is a continual widening the like. Such proposals, even if they found favour,
of the gap between the industrial and the developing which they do not, would take a very long time to
world. It is this deliberately maintained inequality I enact because of the fierce debate that accompanies
propose to correct later in this paper. any modification to the economic effect of copyright.
TRIPS Article 9.2 reads, "Copyright protection While the public lending right is gaining favour
shall extend to expressions and not to ideas, proce- around the world, it only benefits citizens of the en-
dures, methods of operation or mathematical concepts acting country, and only applies to publicly-available
as such". Article 10 provides that "Compilations of physical copies of works.
data or other material, whether in machine readable or I propose instead that we at the UDL operate
other form, which by reason of the selection or ar- completely within the existing statutes and interna-
rangement of their contents constitute intellectual tional agreements and make full use of the exemption
creations shall be protected as such." It then goes on to of facts, concepts and principles from the scope of
clarify that protection does not extend to the data or copyright protection, as provided in international
material itself, unless the material is separately copy- treaties.
rightable. It is established in various jurisdictions (e.g., the
The WCT Article 2 states, "Copyright protection U.S.) that one is privileged to use a copyrighted work
extends to expressions and not to ideas, procedures, to extract its unprotected content 2. This is the basis on
methods of operation or mathematical concepts as which reverse engineering and digital indexing are
permitted. This means that it is legal to have com-
puters process works to obtain their essential infor-
Both France and Poland are signatories to the Berne Convention and mation, provided that this can be done without
thus Poland must accord as much protection to the French author as it
does to its own nationals. copying their expression. However, this principle by
2 It is uncertain whether one may actually copy the work in order to
itself accomplishes nothing, since the effort of dis-
engage in this activity, but it is certainly permissible to use an au-
thorized copy. tilling expression from a work is very substantial and,
3 The resulting expression would also be separately copyrightable, if
up to now, has required human labor3 .
produced by a human, which only compounds the problem.
1186 Shamos /JZhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6.4(11):1179-1187
SYNTHETIC DOCUMENTS infringing copyright b2t extracting the essentials from
a variety of sources and synthesizing an entirely new
A "synthetic document" is one that is produced article from the given ones.
by a machine based on other inputs, typically textual Eventually we want to reach the stage of auto-
articles. This arena has been the subject of much re- matic creation of encyclopedia articles, so that a user
search. Perhaps the simplest example of a synthetic can request an analytical article of a given length on a
document is an index, which is very laborious to specific topic, such as "Tsunami Preparedness in the
generate by hand but can be created very quickly by a Indian Ocean". The program would absorb a large
machine. Such an index is synthetic because it did not corpus of documents, analyze them, evaluate their
exist beforehand. sources, check for inconsistencies and consensus, and
The reason indexes are easy to make automati- prepare a critical article of the required length.
cally is that they are almost purely syntactic. No se- Using digital collections as fodder for synthetic
mantic understanding of the text being indexed is document generators is not a new idea (Wactlar,
needed to create the index. There are some interesting 1996). However, it does not appear to have been
syntactic challenges, such as recognizing whole recognized previously that synthetic documents, if
phrases and idioms, and determining whether a word they are created without copying original expression,
that occurs at the beginning of a sentence should are free of copyright restrictions. Not only can they be
remain capitalized in the index, but highly useful freely distributed, but they can be translated into an
indexes can be produced even ignoring such issues. arbitrary number of languages.
Google is perhaps the extreme example of how useful Great strides have been made recently in auto-
an index can be. mated translation (Kanellos, 2005). While translation
Abstracts and summaries are more advanced of unrestricted, pre-existing text remains difficult,
forms of synthetic documents since they require nearly perfect machine translations can be made in
processing at the sentence, rather than the word, level. restricted domains if controls can be placed on the
Detection of topic sentences and elimination of re- text to be translated at the time it is originally gener-
dundant content are required. ated (Carbonell, 2000). The reason is that ambiguities
At the next level up is synthesis from multiple in syntax and vocabulary can be resolved at genera-
documents, in which a program ingests different texts tion time to yield fully translatable text. Therefore, an
and processes them to generate summaries. Google automated translation system, working in cooperation
News is an excellent example. It scours online with a document synthesizer, would be able to pro-
newspaper feeds and produces essentially a front page duce accurate output in multiple languages without
containing brief headlines, along with links to the the need for human editing.
source publications. It was described at a very general All of the above systems, from indexing soft-
level in the Web publication "Digital Inspiration" on ware to full treatise generators and automated trans-
May 31, 2005: "Google News basically crawls news lation systems, if properly structured, avoid the com-
sites, finds 'story clusters,' ranks the sources, figures plications of copyright law and permit the informa-
out how prominently each source is running the story, tional content of copyrighted works to be digested,
figures out whether its a big story or a little story, translated and distributed worldwide without en-
figures out geographic references, and builds the cumbrance.
pages for the various geographic and language
editions". Most people are surprised to learn that the
process is entirely algorithmic. No human input is CONCLUSION
utilized, save for the effort of the newspaper reporters
who wrote the original stories and the editors all over I propose that the UDL undertake the scanning
the world who independently decided which stories of all works, even those that are in copyright. Such
scanning is legal for the purpose of creating finding
were important enough to publish.
At a greater level of sophistication a system aids, such as indexes, and for extracting informational
could produce summaries of news articles without content. Works that are in copyright cannot be pro-
Shamos /JZhejiang Univ SCI 2005 6.4(11):1179-1187 1187
vided to the public without permission, but, as we sen, P.M., Bauer, M.lVI.,B usdiecker, III. R.F., Hayes, P.J.,
Huettner, A.K., McLaren, B.M., Nirenburg, I., Riebling,
have seen, doing so is unnecessary for the works to be
E.H., Schmandt, L.M., Sweet, J.F., Baker, K.L.,
of significant use. It is essential in all UDL activity
Brownlow, N.D., Franz, A.M., Holm, S.E., Leavitt, J.R.R.,
that copyrighted works be protected against theft,
Lonsdale, D.W., Mitamura, T., Nyberg, E.H., 2000. Inte-
piracy and inadvertent distribution and used only for grated Authoring and Translation System. U.S. Patent
the purposes discussed above. 6,163,785.
All digitized works can then be used as data to Kanellos, M., 2005. Google Dominates in Machine Transla-
tion Tests. CNET News.corn, August 22. http://news.com.
software that will produce synthetic documents. Be-
com/2100-1038 3-5841819.html.
cause these documents will not be copyrighted, they
Pa, W.D., 2000. Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. v.
can be translated into any language, especially by
iCraveTV, 53 U.S.P.Q. 2d 183 I.
automated means, and distributed freely throughout Pollack, M., 2002. Brief of Malla Pollack, Amicus Curiae
the world. By this mechanism I suggest that the world Supporting Petitioners. Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 8. hap://
will obtain immense benefit from the UDL, far be- cyber, law.harvard.edu/openlaw/eldredvashcrofi/supct/
amici/pollack.html.
yond that which was originally envisioned.
Wactlar, H.D., 1996. The next generation electronic library
--Capturing the experience. ACM Computing Surveys,
References
28(4es). http://www.acm.org/pubs/citations/journals/
Carbonell, J.G., Gallup, S.L., Harris, T.J., Higdon, J.W., Hill,
surveys/1996-28-4es/a114-wactlar/.
D.A., Hudson, D.C., Nasjleti, D., Rennich, M.L., Ander-
r i
t I
[ Welcome contributions from all over the world [
http://www.zju.edu.cn/jzus
(cid:12)9 The Journal aims to present the latest development and achievement in scientific research in ,
~ China and overseas to the world's scientific community; i
(cid:12)9 JZUS is edited by an international board of distinguished foreign and Chinese scientists. And
an internationalized standard peer review system is an essential tool for this Journal's i
development;
(cid:12)9 JZUS has been accepted by CA, Ei Compendex, SA, A J, ZM, CABI, BIOSIS (ZR), ~
i IM/MEDLINE, CSA (ASF/CEICISICorrlECIEM/ESPMIMDIMTEIO/SSS*IWR) for ab-
stracting and indexing respectively, since started in 2000; i
', (cid:12)9 JZUS will feature Science 8, Enclineerin_r subiects in Vol. A, 12 issues/year, and Life Science i
I & Biotechnology subjects in Vol. B, 12 issues/year;
i (cid:12)9 JZUS has launched this new column "Science Letters" and warmly welcome scientists all over i
the world to publish their latest research notes in less than 3-4 pages. And assure them ,
these Letters to be published in about 30 days;
i '
(cid:12)9 JZUS has linked its website (http://www.zju.edu.cn/jzus) to CrossRef: http://www.crossref.org i
,i (doi:10.16311jzus.2005.xxxx); MEDLINE: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed; High- i
i Wire: http://highwire.stanford.edu/topljournals.dtl; Princeton University Library: i
http://libweb5.princeton.edu/ejournals/.
'1.. ............................................................................................................................................................................ i
