AUGUST 11 2005
Comparison of speech spectra for additive type spectral
distortion 
B. Yegnanarayana; D. Raj Reddy
J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 63, S78 (1978)
https://doi.org/10.1121/1.2016829
  CrossMark
View Export
Online Citation
22
February
2024
20:24:24
S78 95th Meeting: Acoustical Society of America S78
FRIDAY, 19 MAY 1978 BENEVOLENT AND CANAL STREETS ROOM (M), 9:00 A.M.
SessionG G. Speech Communication VII: Machine Recognition and Intelligibility
James D. Mosko, Chairman
Acoustical Sciences Division, Naval Aerospace Medical Research Laboratory,
Pensacola, Florida 32508
Contributed Papers
9:00 9:24
GG1. Recommendationsfo r advancings peechr ecognition. Wayne A. GG3. Comparison of speech spectra for additive type spectral
Lea and June E. Shoup (Speech Communications Research Labora- distortion. B. Yegnanarayana and D. Raj Reddy, (Department of
tory, 800A Miramonte Drive, Santa Barbara, CA 93109) Computer Science, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA
15213)
Surveying the opinions of over 100 workers in speechr ecognition,
we found widespread agreement about the gaps in current Parametersr epresentings mootheds pectralc haracteristicso f short
technology and the needs for future research and development. segments of speech are often used as features in speech proc-
Improved phonetic segmentation and labeling is considered a top essings ystems.T he main pattern recognitionp roblem in speechi s
priority need in future studies. Also frequently mentioned are matching the test spectrum with the reference spectrum. In this
phonological rules (covering coarticulation effects, phone substitu- paper we show that the matching methods usually adopted do not
tions, deletions, and insertions, and word boundary effects); yield a true measure of the actual differences in the envelopes
and prosodic aids to providing more efficient phonemic analysis of spectra. This is particularly true for additive type of noise
and syntactic parsing. Work should continue on strongly con- degradation in speech. Two types of such degradation namely, the
straining hypothesized word sequences with syntactic and task- quantization noise of waveform encoding and additive bandlimited
dictated constraints, while permitting naturalness of expression. white noise, are considered for illustration. We show that the
The practical needs for continuous speech are not well documented, parameters, linear prediction coefficients or cepstral coefficients, do
and the wide gap between available isolated word recognizers not represent the true spectral envelope information of the dis-
and experimental limited speech understandings ystemsn eeds to be torted signal, which explains the discrepancy among various dis-
bridged by work on several systems of varied complexities and tance measures based on these parameters. We propose a more
capabilities.P erformancee val9ation shouldb e given speciala tten- practical approach which involves transforming one spectrum rela-
tion. We recommend the establishment of speech science centers tive to the other to bring both of them to the same level of
with speech and linguistics expertise, powerful computer facilities, dynamic range b6fore any comparison is made between them. The
and a mechanism for visiting researchers to use such facilities main result of this study is that quantization distortion of ADPCM
to advance their work and refine the resident recognition systems. speech is not very significant even at low bit rates, whereas
[Work supported under Office of Naval Research Contract Number additive white noise is deleterious even for high signal to noise
N00014-77-C-0570.] ratio. This result explains to some extent the good recognition
capability of Harpy speech recognition system for ADPCM speech
even for the lowest bit rate [B. Yegnanarayana and D. Raj Reddy,
9:12 J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 62, S27 (A)].
GG2. Performance of Harpy speechr ecognition systemf or telephone
quality speechi nput. B. Yegnanarayana and D. Raj Reddy (Depart-
9:36
ment of Computer Science, Carnegie- Mellon University, Pittsburgh,
PA 15213) GG4. Somep reliminary results on clusteringf or speaker-independent
word recognition. S. E. Levinson, J. G. Wilpon, L. R. Rabiner,
Spectral distortions in speech affecting the performance of speech
and A. E. Rosenberg (Acoustics Research Department, Bell
processing systems can be classified into multiplicative and additive
Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ 07974)
types. We report in this paper the results of our study on the
performance of Harpy continuous speech recognition system for Recently, Rabiner [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 62, S64(A) (1977)]
multiplicative type of distortion with special reference to telephone demonstrated that clustering is a powerful tool for constructing
quality speech. It has been observed that the recognition per- composite reference templates for speaker independent word recog-
formance of Harpy system for digit task dropped from 99% to 93% nition. This talk will describe a set of specially designed clustering
for telephone speech [G. Goodman, B. Lowerre, D. R. Reddy, and proceduresf or identifying the structure in training data for a speaker
D. Sce!za, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. Vol. 60, S 11(A)]. The effect of dis- independent word recognition system. The clustering procedures
tortion on segmentation and labeling will be discussed for simu- identify coarse structure, fine structure, overlap among clusters
lated and actual telephone data. Performance evaluation is ob- and outliers, and can be used interactively or automatically on
tained for A1 information retrieval task (1011 words) in terms of either multivariate or metric data. The techniques have been
word and sentence accuracies for different types of distortion. The applied to a large data base consisting of four repetitions of a 39-
results will be discussed with reference to signal processing word vocabulary spoken by 50 male and 50 female speakers. Pre-
functions in the system and some normalization techniques liminary results show that the data is highly structured in a manner
are suggestedt o account for the distortion. Comparison of signal such that composite reference templates can be constructed in a
characteristics under telephone and quatization noise distortions is natural way. Corroborating evidence of the structure is derived by
made to explain the recognition performance of the system for these means of a multidimensional scaling technique. Statistics of the
distortions in the input speech. analyses are given which support the hypothesis that the composite
J. Acoust. Soc. Am., Vol. 63, Suppl. No. 1, Spring 1978
22
February
2024
20:24:24
