MAY 01 1981
Computational cost of DP algorithms in speech recognition

A. Waibel; N. Krishnan; R. Reddy
J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 69, S41 (1981)
https://doi.org/10.1121/1.386264
  CrossMark
View Export
Online Citation
22
February
2024
20:23:52
WEDNESDAY MORNING, 20 MAY 1981 CONVENTION HALL, 8:30 TO 10:42 A.M.
SessionS . Speech Communication III: Speech Recognition
Melvyn Hunt, Chairman
National Aeronautical Establishment, National Research Council, Ottawa, Canada KIA OR6
Contributed Papers
8:30 new talkers were used to test the procedure. Several length nor-
malization procedures were incorporated into the testing procedure.
S1. Organizingt he lexiconf or recognition.J oia Jakimik and Sheri
Recognition accuracies on the order of 90% were obtained for
Hunnicutt (36-511, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cam-
the 20 talkers. These results are comparable to ones obtained from
bridge, MA 02139)
a speaker-dependents tudy done previously on the same vocabulary.
In this paper we discuss several aspects of the organization
of a lexicon for the purpose of recognizing spoken words. We are
interested in what a listener (human or computer) needs to know 9:06
about a word in order to distinguish it from other words. We con-
S4. Computational cost of DP algorithms in speech recognition.
sider how words may be organized (or indexed) in the lexicon
A. Waibel, N. Krishnan, and R. Reddy (Department of Computer
so that appropriate candidates for recognition are accessed from
Science, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213)
partial information, and how each word may be specified. (These
features of a lexion define the dimensionso f perceptual similarity In this study we present the models of computation of several
among words, which determine misperceptions, for example.) We search algorithms for isolated word recognition. These search
evaluate some likely indexing properties and lexical representa- techniques considered include variants of the classical dynamic
tions; for example, we consider indexing by stressed vowels, programming, variants of branch-and-bound search technique and
and lexical representation in terms of consonant and vowel classes. variants of the beam search technique (as implemented in the
Harpy system). We show that depending on the choice of the tech-
nique and related parameters, one can achieve more than an order of
8:42 magnitude improvement in speed without any loss of accuracy.
S2. Isolated word recognitionu sing demisyllablet emplates. A. E.
Rosenberg, L. R. Rabiner, S. E. Levinson, J. G. Wilpon, and
9:18
K. L. Shipley (Acoustics Research Department, Bell Laboratories,
Murray Hill, NJ 07974) S5. Effect of reference set selection on speaker dependent speech
recognition. Zongge Li, Fil Alleva, and Raj Reedy (Department of
An automatic speech recognition system is described for recog-
Computer Science, Carnegie-Mel19n University, Pittsburgh, PA
nizing isolated words from reference templates created by con-
15213)
catenatingd emisyllablesf rom a corpus of about 1000 demisyllables.
The composition( in terms of demisyllables)o f each reference word Presented here for a speaker dependent system, is an algorithm
is specifiedi n a lexicon with one or more entries for each word in which chooses a reference template for each word in the vocabulary
the vocabulary. Experiments were carried out, using a 1109-word from a set of N exemplars. The goal of the algorithm is to produce a
basic English vocabulary, to investigate the usefulness of such a reference set that minimizes the wi(cid:127)rst matching behavior and total
representation and the effect on performance of some simple error over the N sets of exemplars. The results of the experiments
modifications in demisyllable specifications and durations of presented here show a reduction in the average error rate from
reference patterns. Performance statisticsa re provided. 16.4% to 10.2% over a set of 4 male speakers and 4 female speakers.
8:54 9:30
S3. Speaker independenti solated word recognition for a 129-word S6. Speaker adaptation for word-based speech recognition systems.
airline vocabulary.J . G. Wilpon, L. R. Rabiner, and A. Bergh( Bell Melvyn J. Hunt (Bell-Northern Research, 3 Place du Commerce,
Laboratories, Acoustics Research Department, Murray Hill, Nuns' Island, Quebec, Canada H3E 1H6)
NJ 07974)
This work is aimed at enhancing the speaker-independent
Previous research at Bell Laboratories has been shown that a performance of word-based speech recognition systems by rapidly
reliable set of speaker-independentw ord reference templates for and automatically deducing general characteristics of the current
a speech recognition system can be obtained from a popula- speaker and using them to derive speaker-normalizing transforms.
tion of talkers using sophisticated statistical clustering techniques. DP matching is used to align and compare correspondingf rames of
These studies have investigated a 39-word alpha-digit vocabulary the incoming speech and reference vocabulary. A single transform
and a 54-word vocabulary of computer terms. In this talk, automatic is then computed for all voiced speech and another for all unvoiced
clusteringp roceduresa re used to create reference tokens for a 129- speech. The transform consist of a linear filtering component and,
word vocabulary of airline reservation terms. To obtain the word optionally, a constrained frequency shift. Experiments have been
reference templates, a two-stage training procedure was used. First carried out with twenty male and female, native and non-native
each of 100 talkers (50 men, 50 women) used the robust training English speakers each producing 150 digits. Adaptation on all 150
procedure of Rabiner and Wilpon to provide a single, reliable pat- digits reduces recognition errors by a factor of three (4.5% to
tern for each vocabulary word. Second the set of automatic cluster- 1.5%). With adaptation on just three randomly selected digits, the
ing procedures placed each word tokensinto one of several word reduction factor is two. Frequency shifting is useful only when the
clusters and produced one reference pattern per cluster. A set of 20 amount of adaptation material is large and the reference speech
S41 J. Acoust. Soc. Am. Suppl. 1, Vol. 69, Spring 1981 101st Meeting: Acoustical Society of America S41
22
February
2024
20:23:52
