January 5, 1963 NATURE
No. 4ea2 81
port is the basis of this increase in sodium outflow. The in living bone could be induced by electrical energy_
effect might be related to the marked tendency of epine Similarly, Bassett• has influenced the direction of bone
phrine to produce depolarization of the membrane potential growth in tissue culture by means of electric fields, as well
as observed in the sinus venosus3•4• It seems improbable as by inhomogeneous magnetic fields.
that changes of the action potential produced by epine MORRISH. SHA:~IOS
phrine are responsible for the increase in sodium outflow, Department of Physics,
since the beating rate of the preparation does not affect New York University, New York.
the time constant of the slow component of the loss curve. LEROY s. LAVINE
Departments of Surgery, Orthopaedic Division,
H. G. HAAS
Long Island Jewish Hospita.l,
W. TRAUTWEIN
New Hyde Park, and
University of Heidelberg.
State University of New York Downstate Medical Center,
'Haaa, H. G., PJUJ,gers .Arch. ges. Phyaiol. (in the press). College of Medicine,
' Haas, H. G., and Glitsch, H. G., PJUlgera Arch. ges. Phyaiol.,274, 13 (1961). Brooklyn, New York.
• CastUlo, J". del, and Katz, B., Nature, 175, 1035 (1955).
MICHAEL l. SHAl\10S
• Hutter, 0. F., and Trautwein, W., J. Gen. Physwl., 39, 715 (1956).
Horace Mann School,
New York.
Piezoelectric Effect in Bone 'McLean. F. c_, and Urist, M. R., Bone, second ed. (Univ. Chicago Press,
1961).
THERE is convincing evidence that bone has an orderly 'lfukada, E., and Yasuda, I., J. Phya. Soc. Japan, 12, 1158 (1957)_
morphological and microscopic structure. This evidence 3 Yasuda, I., Noguchi, K., and Sata, T., Proc. J. Bone and Joi-Id Suru. .
is derived mainly from electron microscopy, ordinary 37, A, 1292 (1955)_
• Bassett, C. Andrew (private communication).
histological preparations, and microradiography1• Such
a structure, consisting essentially of apatite crystals
embedded in an organic matrix, might be expected to A Possible Mechanism of Neurosecretion :
exhibit piezoelectric properties, as in the case of many
Release of Vasopressin by Depolarization
other multicrystalline structures.
and its Dependence on Calcium
This has been conclusively demonstrated by Fukada
and Yasuda•, who measured the piezoelectric constants of IT is recognized that the various influences, nervous and
small specimens of compact bone cut from human and ox osmotic, which bring about release of the hormones vaso
femurs. These authors conclude from the observed pressin and oxytocin from the neurosecretory terminals in
relationship between polarization and stress that the effect the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland act through the
is truly piezoelectric, and they suggest that it results from parent cells in the supra-optic and pare.ventricular nuclei.
the slipping of collagen fibres pa.st one another. Such a scheme demands that these cell bodies in the
We have observed the same stress-induced electrical hypothalamus regulate release of hormone from their
effect in a number of whole bones from different anatomical terminals a considerable distance away and it is simplest
sites and species, both in bending and compression modes. to suppose that this regulation is effected by action
The bones were cleaned of soft t.issue and periosteum, then potentials propagated down the supra-opticohypophysial
placed in an ultrasonic cleaner with detergent and finally tract. In this view the cells of the supra-opticohypophysial
dried. Electrodes wore painted on the bones with con system possess the characteristic property of neurones
ductive paint (DuPont silver paint No. 4817), leads were the propagation of action potentials-as well as the
attached to these electrodes and connected to a vibrating characteristic property of endocrine organs-the libera
reed eloctrometor (Applied Physics Corporation model 31), tion of hormones into the blood stream1•2-
the output of which was displayed on a chart recorder. The purpose of this communication is to give a prelim
To minimize electrical pickup the bone being tested was inary account of experiments indicating that depolariza
kept in a shielded box and stressed from the outside. Bones tion of the endings of the supra-opticohypophysial tract,
which were stressed by bending, such as human ribs or such as might be caused by action potentials, is an
rabbit femurs, were clamped at one end and bent by adequate stimulus for the release of vasopressin and
applying a force normal to the other end. Shorter bones. suggesting an explanation of the way in which depolar
such as a human toe phalanx, were stressed by applying ization may act.
known compressive forces lengthwise along the bone axis. The experiments were performed on rats weighing about
Our results may be illustrated by the following example: 150 g. The infundibular stem was cut and the posterior
the ends of a human toe phalanx were squared off with a pituitary glands rapidly removed, halved and suspended
saw to permit uniform application of the compressive force. in vitro in Locke's solution at 37·5° C. Five glands were
Two silver bands, spaced 12·7 mm apart, were painted used in each experiment. At intervals of 20 min the
completely around the mid-portion of the bone. Tho d.c. incubation medium was drawn off and replaced with fresh
resist!lnce between these electrodes was approximately 10• medium of the same or different composition. The pressor
ohms. Sudden application of a static force resulted in a activity of the incubates was then assayed against pitres
potential difference between the electrodes proportional sin using the method described by Dekanski 3 - After 20-40
to the stress and with a decay time of about 0·5 sec; the min incubation in Locke's solution the resting output of
latter appeared to be characteristic not only of the vasopressin was generally about 20 µu per gland per min_
electrical circuit constants but also of some mechanical A much higher rate of secretion occurred when the
property (relaxation phenomenon) of the bone. On potassium concentration was raised ten-fold (to 56 mM). A
releasing the stress the same voltage pulse appeared with typical effect is shown in Fig. Ia. This powerful stimulant
opposite polarity. The magnitude of the effect was of the effect of excess potassium was found to be dependent on
order of 0·3 m V /kg of applied force. the presence of calciwn; there was no increase in vaso
It has long been known that the architectural structure pressin output when excess potassium was given in
of bones depends to a large extent on the mechanical calcium-free Locke's solution after a period of 40 min
forces acting on them. Tho fact that surface charges incubation with the calcium-free medium (Fig. lb). The
appear on stressed bone may be the controlling factor in inhibitory effect of calcium omission was readily reversible
bone formation- The local electric fields resulting from and potassium regularly regained its effectiveness as a
such surface charges might be expected to influence the stimulus for vasopressin release after calcium had been
orientation and deposition of ions or polarizable molecules. restored to the incubation medium. Finally, it was found
As evidence for the effect of electric fields on bone forma that calcium itself (2 mM) caused a powerful release of
tion, Yasuda et al.• showed that the development of callus vasopressin when added to a preparation exposed to
© 1 9 6 3 Nature Publishing Group
