www.nature.com/scientificreports
OPEN Generalized and social anxiety
disorder interactomes show
distinctive overlaps with striosome
and matrix interactomes
Kalyani B. Karunakaran1, Satoko Amemori2, N. Balakrishnan1,
Madhavi K. Ganapathiraju3,4* & Ken‑ichi Amemori2*
Mechanisms underlying anxiety disorders remain elusive despite the discovery of several associated
genes. We constructed the protein–protein interaction networks (interactomes) of six anxiety
disorders and noted enrichment for striatal expression among common genes in the interactomes.
Five of these interactomes shared distinctive overlaps with the interactomes of genes that were
differentially expressed in two striatal compartments (striosomes and matrix). Generalized anxiety
disorder and social anxiety disorder interactomes showed exclusive and statistically significant
overlaps with the striosome and matrix interactomes, respectively. Systematic gene expression
analysis with the anxiety disorder interactomes constrained to contain only those genes that were
shared with striatal compartment interactomes revealed a bifurcation among the disorders, which
was influenced by the anterior cingulate cortex, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and hippocampus,
and the dopaminergic signaling pathway. Our results indicate that the functionally distinct striatal
pathways constituted by the striosome and the matrix may influence the etiological differentiation of
various anxiety disorders.
Anxiety is a mental state evoked in anticipation of a potential threat. Individuals may either exhibit acute levels
of anxiety in response to an immediate threat or persistent levels of heightened anxiety (trait anxiety) in non-
threatening situations as part of a ‘neurotic’ personality t rait1. While both these non-pathological forms of anxi-
ety may have evolved to protect the individual from potential dangers, the latter predisposes the individual to
a range of anxiety disorders (ADs), depression, or both2. ADs, including generalized anxiety disorder (GAD),
social anxiety disorder (SAD), specific phobia, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and obsessive–compulsive
disorder (OCD), affect 284 million people (63% females, 2.5–7% variation by country), and are among the most
prevalent mental health and neurodevelopmental disorders (WHO and IHME, 2017)3. About 31% of U.S. adults
experience at least one AD during their lifetime1,4. ADs exhibit substantial familial aggregation with 30–50%
heritability5,6, and about 50% comorbidity of various AD types7. Despite the discovery of several genes associated
with these disorders through linkage8,9 and genome-wide association studies10–14, the neurobiological implica-
tions of their genetic architectures remain elusive.
Several factors may reflect the distinct etiologies of various ADs, including different diagnostic definitions,
regionally-specific neural activity and region-specific gene expression in the brain. By definition, SAD symp-
toms are conditional and ‘externally’ provoked by exposure to social s ituations15. In contrast, GAD is ‘internally’
provoked in the absence of any apparent anxiety-inducing event15. Regionally-specific neural activity has been
associated with these disorders. For example, pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) of GAD patients showed
hyperactivity correlated with their treatment responses16, whereas bilateral amygdala showed hyperactivity in
response to emotional stimuli in SAD patients17. Neural activity patterns within specific brain regions and
among anatomically/functionally connected regions may underlie cognitive and emotional states in anxiety and
can be correlated with transcriptional profiles18–24. It is thus possible that psychiatric morbidities such as ADs
that are strongly driven by specific brain regions or networks would exhibit abnormalities in region-specific
1Supercomputer Education and Research Centre, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India. 2Institute for the
Advanced Study of Human Biology, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan. 3Department of Biomedical Informatics,
School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA. 4Intelligent Systems Program, School of Computing
and Information, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA. *email: madhavi@pitt.edu; amemori.kenichi.7s@
kyoto-u.ac.jp
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 1
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
transcriptional signatures. Although anxiety-linked regional gene expression has been examined in post-mortem
human brain tissues, blood samples and pharmacogenomic animal models25–29, the functional consequences
of such regional specificities remain unclear. In the current study, we examined ADs within the mechanistic
framework of the protein–protein interaction (PPI) network (or the ‘interactome’), which has revealed higher-
order relationships in the genetic structures of complex disorders30–33.
Protein–protein interactions (PPIs) drive the cellular machinery by facilitating a variety of biological pro-
cesses, including signal transduction, the formation of cellular structures and enzymatic complexes. The effect
of genetic mutations and abnormal gene expression may affect proteins and PPIs, posing deeper implications
for disease development, such as multiple pathophenotypes that cannot be attributed to a single genotype in a
d isease34. Such effects can be explained through the analysis of the interactome, which allows examination of
shared genetics, biological pathways and symptomatology30–33.
We constructed the interactomes for six types of ADs (GAD, SAD, OCD, specific phobia, panic disorder and
PTSD interactomes) using genes associated with each AD in biomedical literature as starting points. We identified
the transcriptional profiles that characterized each of the anxiety disorder interactomes (ADIs) by computing the
enrichment of the genes contained in these ADIs for high/moderate expression in specific human brain regions
(Fig. 1a-c). For example, enrichment of a specific ADI for ACC-expressed genes was determined by comparing
the distribution of ACC-expressed genes in that ADI against the background distribution of ACC-expressed
genes among all the genes expressed in the brain. We then performed principal component and hierarchical
clustering analyses to characterize region-wise expression patterns of ADIs and delineate AD groups (Fig. 1d).
We observed that the genes that commonly co-occur in all the ADIs were strikingly enriched for expression in
the striatum. We conducted a detailed interactome-based analysis of two striatal subdivisions called striosomes
and matrix. The striatum is the primary input of the basal ganglia and is critical to motor control and motivated
behaviors35. The striatum itself is histologically and neurochemically segregated into the striosome (or patch)
and matrix compartments, which have differential gene expression signatures, anatomical connections and
developmental p atterns36. Striosomes are labyrinthine structures found embedded within the extra-striosomal
matrix37. Striosomes express elevated levels of the µ-opioid receptors (MORs) in r odents38 and Kv4 potassium
channel subunit (KChIP1) in primates37, whereas matrix expresses elevated levels of calbindin39, s omatostatin40,
e ncephalin41 and a cetylcholinesterase42. Striosomes are preferentially innervated by cortical areas implicated in
limbic and evaluative processes such as the caudal orbitofrontal cortex (cOFC), pregenual anterior cingulate
cortex (pACC)43–45 in primates, and prelimbic cortex (PL) in rodents46. The medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in
the striosome and matrix send projections to the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the external and internal
segments of the globus pallidus, but only striosome MSNs have projections to the dopamine neurons in substantia
nigra pars compacta47,48.
It is noteworthy that both the striatal subdivisions are preferentially innervated by regions that may govern
various aspects of anxiety. Both striosomes and the matrix arise from progenitor cell populations constituting
the lateral ganglionic eminence47. However, striosomal neurons migrate out into the striatum from the lateral
ganglionic eminence earlier than the matrix47. The functions of striosomes and matrix are yet to be fully eluci-
dated. Nevertheless, studies have implicated them in reward-guided decision making and motivational conflict
during cost–benefit decision making44,46,49–51, and demonstrated their differential involvement in Huntington’s
d isease52, Parkinson’s disease53, motor stereotype54, and drug addiction47. Interestingly, the striosome/matrix
interactomes (SMIs), assembled using genes differentially expressed in the striosome and the matrix, showed pref-
erential overlap with specific ADIs. Further, the genes shared between specific ADIs and SMIs showed discrete
expression patterns, which allowed us to cluster the various ADs. Our findings implicate striatum as one of the
focal points of etiological differentiation of ADs by showing that region-specific expression patterns underlying
these disorders emerge only when the ADIs are constrained to include those genes that are shared with the SMIs.
Results
Expression of ADI genes in brain regions. Genes associated with six types of ADs (from ref55 Fig. 1.
Suggested scheme for exploring a suspected anxiety disorder), namely, PTSD, OCD, GAD, SAD, specific phobia
and panic disorder, were extracted from D isGeNET56 (Supplementary Table S1). Note that (a) DisGeNET cata-
logs gene-disease associations described in animal models such as rats and mice, in addition to those described
in human studies, and (b) many of the genes cataloged in DisGeNET may not share a causal relationship with
the disease, and may instead only be associated with disease susceptibility or endophenotypes. Using RNA-
sequencing data of 13 postnatal human brain regions obtained from G TEx57, we attempted to identify whether
these genes were enriched for expression in a specific brain region in a statistically significant manner. Genes
with high/medium expression (transcripts per million (TPM) ≥ 9) in these 13 brain regions that were not house-
keeping genes (from Human Protein A tlas58) were considered. For the enrichment analysis, we computed the
distribution of genes expressed in a specific brain region among AD-associated genes and compared it with the
background distribution of genes expressed in this particular brain region among all the genes that were assayed
for expression in any brain regions. Statistically significant expression in a particular brain region was computed
using a hypergeometric test (see Methods). No significant enrichment was found for any brain regions among
AD-associated genes. This led us to examine these genes from the perspective of anxiety disorder interactomes
(ADIs). This framework allowed us to include a larger number of genes in the enrichment analysis and examine
AD-associated regions in the context of other mechanistically linked genes.
To assemble the network of PPIs (i.e., interactome) for each type of AD, we collected known PPIs from
Human Protein Reference Database (HPRD)59 and the Biological General Repository for Interaction Datasets
(BioGRID)60. The GAD, SAD, PTSD, specific phobia, OCD, and panic disorder interactomes (Supplementary
Data S1) were constructed in this manner (see Methods). The ADIs showed significant enrichment in several of
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 2
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 1. Methodology to identify regional specificity of ADs in the brain. (a) Genes associated with six types
of ADs were compiled (depicted as red nodes), and (b) their protein interactomes assembled by curating the
interactions of the proteins encoded by them with other proteins (i.e. interactors depicted as cyan colored nodes
in the network diagram). These protein–protein interactions or PPIs are depicted as edges in the network. (c)
The enrichment of the individual ADIs with genes showing medium/high expression (TPM ≥ 9) in specific
brain regions were computed, and the statistical significance of these enrichments were calculated as negative
logarithm of p values (i.e. –log P). TPM = transcripts per million. (d) Principal component analysis (PCA) was
10
performed to identify specific grouping patterns from the data matrix of –log P of enrichment of each ADI in
10
specific brain regions. Principal components which explain a large percentage of the variance observed across
this data matrix were identified, and the component loadings denoting the correlation of the original variables
(− log P of specific brain regions) with the principal components were examined to interpret the observed
10
patterns. The data matrix was also subjected to hierarchical clustering to delineate closely related groups of
ADs. In the heat map, regions were colored according to the z-scores indicating their mean enrichment in the
ADI. The z-scores indicate the number of standard deviations that separate a given p value from the mean. High
z-scores correspond to high enrichment for the specific region.
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 3
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 2. Principal component analysis and clustering analyses of the ADIs based on enrichment patterns
in the brain failed to capture putative regional specificities and clusters of the ADs. (a) PCA was performed
with the p values of enrichment of the ADI genes in 13 brain regions compiled from GTEx. p values were
transformed to − l og P values and a data matrix with brain regions (rows) and ADs (columns) (represented
10
as a heatmap in (c)) was constructed out of these log-transformed values. Unit variance scaling was applied
across this matrix. SVD with imputation was used to extract the principal components (PCs). Component
scores (n = 6) corresponding to PC1 and PC2 explaining 82.6% and 14.7% of the total variance were plotted
along X and Y axes respectively. (b) Component loadings of 13 dimensions, i.e. brain regions, contributing
to PC1 and PC2 shown in (a) were plotted along X and Y axes respectively. Relatively equal and moderate
contribution of all the brain regions, except the cerebellum and the cerebellar hemisphere, shows that ~ 97% of
the variance captured by PC1 and PC2 plotted in (a) may not have reflected regional specificities of the ADs.
(c) Variations in region-wise enrichment of ADI genes (computed based on GTEx data) are represented in the
form of a heatmap. p values indicating statistical significance of enrichment were converted into − l og P values.
10
Each cell in the heatmap depicts a normalized z-score derived from a − l og P value corresponding to a brain
10
region. Z-scores indicate relative enrichment of specific brain regions in an ADI and are computed based on the
number of standard deviations that separate a given p value from the mean. Clustering was performed using the
hierarchical clustering method with average linkage. The dendrograms were derived from the clustering analysis
based on computation of Pearson correlation coefficients between the data points. The region-wise enrichment
profile of specific phobia seems to be distinct from that of OCD, GAD, panic disorder, SAD and PTSD, which
were all identified to be closely related. Clusters among the latter five disorders were not distinctive. The
clustered heatmap was created using Heatmapper (http:// www. heatm apper. ca/).
the 13 brain regions extracted from G TEx57. First, we performed enrichment analyses to determine whether genes
in ADIs tend to be overrepresented in a specific brain region. P values indicating the statistical significance of
the overlap between the interactomes and genes expressed in specific brain regions were computed based on the
hypergeometric test (see Methods). P value < 0.05 after multiple test adjustments using the Benjamini–Hochberg
method was considered to be significant.
We then sought to understand whether the specific values indicating the significance of enrichment of the
ADIs in the brain regions revealed any underlying clustering patterns in terms of regional specificities among
the ADs themselves. For this, we generated a data matrix of ADIs (columns) versus brain regions (rows); each
cell contained the negative of log-transformed p values. Single value decomposition (SVD) with imputation
was applied to this matrix to extract principal components that explain the variance observed with region-wise
enrichment of gene expression across the ADs. Principal component analysis (PCA) is used to capture systematic
variations underlying datasets. Unit variance scaling was applied across the matrix. Six principal components
were extracted from the matrix, out of which PC1 and PC2 explained 82.6% and 14.7% of the total variance
(Fig. 2a). PTSD and specific phobia seemed to be separated from GAD, OCD, SAD and panic disorders (Fig. 2a).
The latter four had low component scores, and clusters among them were not apparent (Fig. 2a). The log-
transformed p values of enrichment in each brain region were then converted to normalized z-scores. Z-scores
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 4
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
indicate the number of standard deviations that separate a given p value from the mean. This matrix of z-scores
was then subjected to hierarchical clustering based on Pearson’s correlation coefficients and the average linkage
method (Fig. 2c). OCD, GAD, panic disorder, SAD and PTSD were depicted as being closely related compared
with specific phobia (Fig. 2c). Two factors seemed to differentiate the five ADs from specific phobia: (a) their
lower enrichment in the cerebellum and the spinal cord, and (b) their higher enrichment in cortical regions such
as the frontal cortex and the ACC (compared with specific phobia).
Next, we sought to identify specific brain regions that were relatively more influential than others in delineat-
ing the specific pattern of clustering observed among the ADs. To this end, we examined component loadings
that have contributed to PC1 and PC2. Component loadings are values depicting the correlation of the original
variables in our data matrix—negative log of p value of enrichment for specific brain regions—with each of the
extracted principal components. On plotting the component loadings of the brain regions for PC1 and PC2
across X and Y axes, we noticed that almost all of the brain regions were moderately correlated with PC1 and PC2
and contributed relatively equally to them (Fig. 2b). Hence, although the PC plot of ADs explained ~ 97% of the
variance observed in region-wise enrichment (Fig. 2b), it may not have captured region specificities underlying
the ADs, except for the ability of cerebellar structures, spinal cord and cortical regions to differentiate specific
phobia from OCD, GAD, panic disorder, SAD and PTSD. The same pattern of moderate correlation of most of
the component loadings with PC1 and PC2 and their equivalent contribution to the principal components was
observed with a larger set of 26 brain regions extracted from Allen Brain Atlas (genes that are not housekeeping
genes and have logRPKM > 2, where RPKM is Reads Per Kilobase per Million mapped reads, were considered)
(Supplementary Fig. S1).
Potential striatal association of ADIs. We checked the overlap among the six ADIs. Thirty-six genes
were found to be shared among all the interactomes (Supplementary Table S2). These genes were found to be
enriched only in striatal genes, i.e., genes with high/medium expression in the caudate nucleus, putamen and
the nucleus accumbens (all at p value = 0.0187) (based on data extracted from GTEx), suggesting a potential
relationship between ADs and striatal gene dysfunction.
Early developmental mechanisms controlled by genetic susceptibility factors and gene-environment inter-
actions may modulate the response pattern of an individual to threat stimuli5. Genes involved in establishing
neuronal connectivity in the adult brain are often regulated by genes that specify the neuronal identity and brain
regionalization during the early stages of brain development. We reasoned that the striatum-enriched genes that
co-occur in all the ADs could be closely connected with genes that set up the cellular and molecular architecture
of the striatum during early developmental stages, namely, transcriptional regulators and signaling transduction
molecules controlling neuronal development and neurotransmission61. Specifically, these genes are DLX1-6,
GSX2, EBF1, ISL1, FOXP1/2, DRD1/2, GNAL, ADCY5, PPP1R1B, STEP and R ASGRP261. We indeed observed
that these genes involved in striatal development were closely interconnected with our striatum-enriched genes
(Supplementary Fig. S2). Several anxiety-associated genes had direct interactions with striatal development
genes, such as PRKCA with ADCY5 and DLX3, and ESR1 with ISL1 (Supplementary Fig. S2). We found this
network to be enriched in dorsal thalamus genes (p value = 0.0143) in addition to striatal genes (p value = 0.0016)
(based on data extracted from Allen Brain Atlas). These results imply that the striatum is critical for ADs from
the perspective of their interactomes.
Distinctive overlaps of ADIs and SMIs. Striatum is composed of two neurochemically segregated
compartments called the striosomes and the matrix, which are characterized by their distinct gene expression
profiles47. We analyzed these structures from an interactome perspective. We compiled the list of genes differen-
tially expressed in the striosomes and the matrix compartments (Supplementary Table S3) of various species (rat,
mouse, ferret, cat, monkey and human)47, and mapped them to their human orthologs. From enrichment analy-
sis using Gene Ontology terms, we noted that some genes differentially expressed in the striosomes (HTR2A,
HTR2C, CHRM1-5 and DRD4) were involved in the serotonergic signaling pathway (p value = 2.12E−10);
human striosomes are known to be enriched in serotonin receptors62. Some genes differentially expressed in the
matrix neurons (CDH8, CDK5, CNR1, HTR2A and SLC17A6) were found to be involved in the glutamatergic
synaptic transmission (p value = 1.93E−5). We examined whether the interactome of the genes differentially
expressed in either of these striatal compartments were significantly enriched in each of the ADIs.
Computation of overlaps among the ADIs revealed that they themselves do not segregate into any groups
(Fig. 3a). However, specific ADIs showed significant and distinctive overlaps (Fig. 3b and Table 1) with the
striosome/matrix interactomes (SMIs) (Supplementary Data S2). The striosome interactome (SI) shared 28%
of its constituent genes with the GAD interactome (227 genes out of a total of 810 SI genes) (p value = 1.31E−4)
(i.e. out of the total number of 810 genes present in SI, 227 genes were also found in the GAD interactome) and
53% (427/810) of genes with the OCD interactome (p value = 5.21E−8). These genes shared with the SI account
for 38% (227/595) and 25% (427/1718) of the genes in the GAD and OCD interactomes, respectively. Out of
the 1718 genes in the OCD interactome, 639 were not shared with any other ADI. 17.5% of these 639 (112/639)
genes were shared with the SI (p value = 2.27E−7) (overlap between OCD and SI is illustrated in the form of a
network diagram in Supplementary Fig. S3). Genes shared between OCD and SI showed high enrichment for
genes associated with human motor and behavioral stereotypes (Human Phenotype Ontology63) (Supplemen-
tary Note S1). This observation is in line with the findings of a study that demonstrated the ability of excessive
activation in the striosomes (compared with the matrix) to predict the degree of drug-induced motor stereotypy
in r ats54; both the activation ratio and drug-induced stereotypy have been shown to be under the regulation of
cholinergic interneurons in the s triatum64–66. The matrix interactome (MI) shared 14.35% (30/209) of its constitu-
ent genes with the SAD interactome (p value = 8.23E−3). The MI shared 23% (48/209) of its constituent genes
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 5
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 3. ADIs showed preferential and statistically significant overlaps with either SI or MI. (a) The number
of proteins shared among ADIs is shown as a Venn diagram. (b) The number of common proteins shared
between a particular ADI and SMIs assembled from the genes differentially expressed in striosome/matrix was
computed. − l og P values derived from this analysis are shown as bars in the figure. Overlaps with p value < 0.05
10
(i.e. − l og P > 1.3) after correction for multiple hypotheses were considered to be statistically significant. *, **
10
and *** corresponds to p value < 0.05, p value < 0.01 and p value < 0.001 respectively. Four out of the 5 ADIs
shown in the figure shared statistically significant and exclusive overlaps with either the SI (OCD and GAD) or
the MI (SAD and phobia). While the panic disorder interactome shared statistically significant overlaps with
both of the striatal compartments, the overlap shared with the MI was more statistically significant than that
shared with the SI. From (a), it is clear that the ADIs themselves do not segregate into any groups. However,
(b) shows that they exhibit preferential overlap with SMIs. For example, (a) shows that the OCD interactome
shares 186 genes with the SAD interactome, whereas (b) clarifies that the OCD and SAD interactomes exhibit
preferential overlaps with the striosome and MIs respectively. The Venn diagram tool provided as part of the
Bioinformatics & Evolutionary Genomics toolkit was used to create the Venn diagram (http:// bioin forma tics.
psb. ugent. be/ webto ols/ Venn/).
with the phobia interactome (p value = 0.0154). The genes shared with the MI account for 11% (30/266) and 7.5%
(48/634) of the genes in the SAD and phobia interactomes. 32.5% (68/209, p value = 0.012) and 26% (212/810,
p value = 0.025) of genes found in MI and SI respectively were also found in the panic disorder interactome. In
addition to striatum-expressed genes, thalamus-expressed genes were enriched in the network of striatal devel-
opmental regulators and anxiety-associated genes (Supplementary Fig. S2). Unlike striatal sub-compartments,
molecularly distinct subdivisions of the thalamus did not show any preferential association with any ADI (Sup-
plementary Methods and Supplementary Note S2).
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 6
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Overlap between Interactomes and the P value of significance Strisome Interactome (810 genes) Matrix Interactome (209 genes)
Generalized anxiety disorder interactome (595 genes) 227 (1.31E−04) n.s
Obsessive compulsive disorder interactome (1718 genes) 427 (5.21E−08) n.s
Panic disorder interactome (773 genes) 212 (0.025) 68 (0.012)
Social anxiety disorder interactome (266 genes) n.s 30 (8.23E−03)
Specific phobia interactome (634 genes) n.s 48 (0.0154)
Table 1. Overlap of the anxiety disorder and striatal subcompartment interactomes. The table shows the
statistics of the overlaps shared between the five anxiety disorder interactomes and the interactomes of the
striatal subdivisions.
In summary, each ADI shared a statistically significant overlap with SMIs, i.e., the GAD interactome shared an
overlap with the SI, OCD with SI, phobia with MI and SAD with MI. Although panic disorder showed significant
overlaps with SI and MI, the statistical significance of the overlap with MI was higher than that of the overlap with
SI. These results raised the possibility that gene dysfunction occurring in striosomes could underlie the symptoms
of GAD and OCD, whereas matrix dysfunction could underlie SAD and phobia. Hence, five groups of shared
genes contributing to statistically significant overlaps of ADIs with SMIs (referred to as ‘AD-SMIs’ henceforth)
were delineated from this analysis, namely, GAD-striosome, OCD-striosome, SAD-matrix, phobia-matrix and
panic-matrix. We focused on these five AD-SMIs speculating that they would allow us to probe the etiological
differentiation of these ADs in terms of their affiliation to one of the two striatal compartments.
Expression of AD‑SMI genes in brain regions. Studies have noted a substantial overlap between func-
tional connectivity and gene co-expression patterns within and between cortical and striatal networks18–23.
Functional connectivity can be defined as a temporal correlation between brain regions, often derived from
co-activated fMRI signals at resting state67. Co-expression patterns are derived from Pearson and Spearman cor-
relations that assess the transcriptional similarity of genes. Based on this, we speculated that testing the regional
expression patterns of AD-SMIs may reveal brain regions showing expression of these shared genes and perhaps,
exhibiting functional connectivity with the striatal compartments and governing key anxiety traits. However,
it is important to note that (a) the validity of this speculation is supported only for a limited number of brain
networks, and (b) the degree and the nature of the interaction between transcriptional similarity and functional
connectivity are yet to be fully elucidated23. We thus examined the expression patterns of AD-SMIs (e.g., genes
shared between GAD interactome and SI) in the brain.
Lists of genes expressed in 13 postnatal human brain regions were extracted from GTEx57, and their enrich-
ment in each of the five AD-SMIs was systematically computed using the hypergeometric test (see Methods).
Multiple brain regions showed significant enrichment in each of these groups. Following this, we used the
negative of log-transformed p values denoting the significance levels of enrichment as input data for PCA. Five
principal components were extracted, and from this, we selected PC1 and PC2, explaining 58.6% and 27.5% of
the variance observed with region-wise enrichment in gene expression to interpret the AD groupings. Notably,
we observed that OCD, GAD, SAD, and panic disorder exhibited clearer patterns of clustering when the overlap
with striatal compartments was taken into consideration (Fig. 4a) compared to when this overlap was not taken
into consideration (Fig. 2a). Next, we generated a heat map of z-scores derived from the log-transformed p values
and employed Pearson correlation and average linkage method to identify clusters of ADs. Firstly, we observed
two main clusters (Fig. 4c): the first cluster included SAD-matrix and panic-matrix, and the second cluster
included GAD-striosome and a sub-cluster consisting of OCD-striosome and phobia-matrix. The occurrence
of GAD-striosome and OCD-striosome in the same cluster (Fig. 4c) is supported by previous observations link-
ing striatal stimulation and striatal beta oscillation to a key feature in OCD called cognitive inflexibility, which
manifested as a repetitive pattern of a major symptom observed in GAD called pessimistic v aluation50. Secondly,
with the introduction of striatal subdivisions in our analysis with AD-SMIs (Fig. 4c), we were able to delineate
the clustering of caudate nucleus and putamen, and nucleus accumbens and ACC, a pattern that was not clear
with ADIs (Fig. 2c). This demonstrates the biological validity of our approach. Additionally, it is notable that the
spinal cord did not influence the clustering of the AD-SMIs (Fig. 4c).
Further, we plotted the correlation of the component loadings with PC1 and PC2 to assess whether the
observed pattern of clustering reflected regional specificities (Fig. 4b). It was observed that some brain regions
had an uneven influence over the clustering pattern when overlap with striatal compartments was taken into
consideration (Fig. 4b), namely, ACC, amygdala, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, putamen and caudate,
compared to when the striatal overlap was not taken into consideration (Fig. 2b). Heightened reactivity in
the first three regions has been associated with clinical anxiety68. We identified two groups of brain regions
that may more or less act as functional units to influence the etiology of these two purported ‘types’ of ADs
(Fig. 4c): (1) amygdala and hippocampus and (2) ACC and nucleus accumbens. They are referred to here as
‘functional units’ by virtue of them being tight clusters in the dendrogram, and only in terms of their potential
contribution towards anxiety etiology (see Supplementary Discussion). Higher enrichment of SAD-matrix and
panic-matrix in the amygdala and hippocampus may have segregated them from the cluster of GAD-striosome,
OCD-striosome and phobia-matrix that showed lower enrichment in these same regions (Fig. 4c). Relatively
higher enrichment of GAD-striosome in ACC and nucleus accumbens may have led to its segregation from the
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 7
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 4. Principal component analysis and clustering analyses of AD-SMIs revealed uneven influence of
key brain regions linked to anxiety etiology and distinct AD groups. (a) PCA was performed with the p values
of enrichment of genes that co-occur in specific ADIs and SMIs. As observed in Fig. 5, specific ADIs share
discrete and distinct statistically significant overlaps with either SI or MI, namely, GAD and striosome, OCD
and striosome, phobia and matrix, SAD and matrix, and panic disorder and matrix. The enrichment of these
genes among those exhibiting high/medium expression in 13 brain regions (TPM > 9) compiled from GTEx
was checked. The statistical significance of region-wise enrichment was computed as p values. These values
were transformed to − l og P values, which were then assembled into a data matrix containing brain regions
10
as rows and ADs as columns (represented as a heatmap in Fig. (c)). Unit variance scaling was applied across
this matrix. Single value decomposition (SVD) with imputation was used to extract the principal components
(PCs). Component scores of GAD-striosome, OCD-striosome, phobia-matrix, SAD-matrix and panic disorder-
matrix (n = 5) corresponding to PC1 and PC2 explaining 58.6% and 27.5% of the total variance were plotted
along X and Y axes respectively. (b) Component loadings of 10 dimensions, i.e. brain regions, contributing
to PC1 and PC2 shown in (a) were plotted along X and Y axes respectively. In contrast with the pattern of
component loadings of brain regions observed in Fig. 2b, PCA with genes shared between ADIs and SMIs
appears to have captured uneven influences of several brain regions such as the ACC, amygdala, hippocampus,
nucleus accumbens, putamen and caudate on the grouping patterns of ADs. (c) Variations in region-wise
enrichment of genes (computed from GTEx data) shared between ADIs and SMIs are represented in the form
of a heatmap. Specifically, normalized z-scores computed based on the –log transformed p values, indicating
10
the statistical significance of enrichment of GAD-striosome, OCD-striosome, phobia-matrix, SAD-matrix and
panic disorder-matrix, are shown in the figure. Z-scores indicate relative enrichment of specific brain regions
in the gene sets and are computed based on the number of standard deviations that separate a given p value
from the mean. Clustering was performed using the hierarchical clustering method with average linkage. The
dendrograms were derived from the clustering analysis based on computation of Pearson correlation coefficients
between the data points. Two main clusters were detected among the ADs. SAD and panic formed one cluster.
OCD and phobia formed a sub-cluster within the second main cluster. GAD was an outgroup to the sub-cluster
of OCD and phobia. The clustered heatmap was created using Heatmapper (http:// www. heatm apper. ca/).
sub-cluster of OCD-striosome and phobia-matrix (Fig. 4c). Based on this analysis, we constructed ‘brain maps’
for two categories of ADs, namely, those sharing interactome overlaps with striosome and with matrix (Fig. 5).
We examined whether the AD-SMIs were enriched for expression in 23 postnatal human brain regions
and three transitory fetal structures (lateral ganglionic eminence, medial ganglionic eminence and rhombic
lip) available in Allen Brain Atlas69. PCA showed that the clustering among the ADs was clearer when overlap
with the striatal compartments was taken into consideration (Fig. 6a) compared with when this overlap was
not taken into consideration (Supplementary Fig. S1a). Despite using a more diverse and numerous dataset,
hierarchical clustering revealed the preservation of the grouping of GAD-striosome with OCD-striosome and
SAD-matrix with panic-matrix, both of which appeared as sub-clusters within the main cluster in this analysis;
phobia was detected as an outgroup to this main cluster (Fig. 6c). Two groups of brain structures seemed to
be highly influential in this clustering (Fig. 6c): (1) medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) and lateral ganglionic
eminence (LGE) and (2) parietal neocortex. LGE is a source of striatal projection neurons and gives rise to both
striosomes and matrix neurons70. MGE populates cortical layers and differentiates into interneurons71. The
segregation of the sub-clusters of GAD-striosome and OCD-striosome from SAD-matrix and panic-matrix
could have stemmed from the higher enrichment of LGE and MGE in the former group compared with the
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 8
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 5. Map of focal brain regions in various ADs. The figure shows brain regions that may be linked to
the etiology of two categories of ADs, namely, those with striosomal (green boxes) affiliation and those with
matrix (red boxes) affiliation, in terms of interactome overlaps. The regions in the ‘brain map’ of each AD was
colored according to the normalized z-score for that region indicating its mean enrichment in the ADI. This was
computed using data from GTEx as shown in Fig. 4c. Prominent involvement of ACC in generalized anxiety
disorder (d) and that of amygdala and hippocampus in social anxiety disorder (a) can be noted. The brain
section image is a royalty-free stock illustration (ID: 1401181217) downloaded from Shutterstock titled ‘Human
Brain Anatomy Sagittal Section with Labels, 3D Rendering’.
latter group (Fig. 6c). It was interesting to note that phobia-matrix showed high enrichment for LGE and MGE
similar to GAD-striosome and OCD-striosome (Fig. 6c), which may explain their occurrence in the same clus-
ter in Fig. 4c and hint at shared etiology rooted in perturbations of genes expressed during the early stages of
striosome-matrix compartment specification. Phobia-matrix had a lower enrichment for parietal cortex (and
CGE which clustered together) compared to GAD-striosome and OCD-striosome. GAD-striosome showed
exclusive enrichment for ACC (Fig. 6c). Lastly, we examined the correlation of component loadings with PC1
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 9
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 6. Principal component analysis and clustering analyses of AD-SMIs based on a larger expression
dataset recapitulated the AD groups and revealed embryonic structures potentially relevant to anxiety etiology.
(a) PCA was performed with the p values of enrichment of genes that co-occur in specific ADIs and SMIs. The
enrichment of these genes among those expressed across 26 brain regions compiled from Allen Brain Atlas
having log(RPKM) > 2 was checked. The statistical significance of region-wise enrichment was computed as p
values. These values were transformed to − l og P values, and then assembled into a data matrix containing brain
10
regions as rows and ADs as columns (represented as a heatmap in (c)). Unit variance scaling was applied across
this matrix. Single value decomposition (SVD) with imputation was used to extract the principal components
(PCs). Component scores of GAD-striosome, OCD-striosome, phobia-matrix, SAD-matrix and panic disorder-
matrix (n = 5) corresponding to PC1 and PC2 explaining 84.1% and 6.6% of the total variance were plotted
along X and Y axes, respectively. (b) Component loadings of 24 dimensions, i.e., brain regions, contributing
to PC1 and PC2 shown in (a) were plotted along X and Y axes, respectively. This figure recapitulates findings
from GTEx data (Fig. 4c) with data from Allen Brain Atlas, namely, observation of clearer grouping patterns
among ADs when the striatal overlap is taken into consideration and uneven contribution of multiple brain
regions to these patterns such as medial ganglionic eminence, lateral ganglionic eminence and parietal cortex.
(c) Variations in region-wise enrichment of genes between ADIs and SMIs are represented in the form of a
heatmap. Specifically, normalized z–scores computed based on the –log transformed p values, indicating the
10
statistical significance of enrichment of GAD-striosome, OCD-striosome, phobia-matrix, SAD-matrix and
panic disorder-matrix, are shown in the figure. Z-scores indicate relative enrichment of specific brain regions
in the gene sets and are computed based on the number of standard deviations that separate a given p value
from the mean. Clustering was performed using the hierarchical clustering method with average linkage.
The dendrograms were derived from the clustering analysis based on the computation of Pearson correlation
coefficients between the data points. Clustering of GAD with OCD and SAD with panic disorder seen with
GTEx data in Fig. 4c is recapitulated here. Phobia was identified as a separate cluster altogether. The clustered
heatmap was created using Heatmapper (http:// www. heatm apper. ca/).
and PC2, which captured 90.7% of the variance observed in region-wise enrichment of gene expression. This
ascertained the fact that the observed pattern of clustering was unevenly influenced by regional specificities that
become apparent when overlap with striatal compartments is taken into consideration (Fig. 6b). These regional
specificities were not observed when the striatal overlap was not considered (Supplementary Fig. S1b). From
this detailed analysis, we can confirm that regional specificities underlying the various ADs are revealed only
when discrete subnetworks of their interactomes that contain genes differentially expressed in the striosome/
matrix and their interactors are examined. Since functional connectivity and gene expression are correlated in
the b rain18–23, this raises the possibility that the etiology of specific ADs may be rooted in the discrete functional
connections of specific striatal sub-compartments with other brain regions, such as the ACC and amygdala, that
govern traits specific to these ADs.
Signaling pathways enriched in key brain regions influential in the grouping of ADs. We iso-
lated the gene sets that were responsible for the enrichment of the AD-SMIs in the four brain regions—amyg-
dala, hippocampus, ACC and nucleus accumbens—that were presumably more influential than the other brain
regions (Fig. 4b) in producing the grouping pattern seen in Fig. 4a,c, i.e., the genes that were responsible for the
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 10
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 7. Neuronal synaptic signaling pathways enriched among genes expressed in influential brain regions
recapitulated the AD groups. Gene sets in GAD-striosome, OCD-striosome, phobia-matrix, SAD-matrix and
panic-matrix showing moderate/high expression in the four key brain regions (i.e., amygdala, hippocampus,
ACC and nucleus accumbens) were selected. The KEGG pathways enriched in them were then identified.
(a) PCA was performed with the p values of enrichment of five neuronal synaptic signaling pathways in each
of these gene sets, namely, cholinergic, dopaminergic, GABAergic, glutamatergic and serotonergic signaling
pathways. These values were transformed to –log P values and were then assembled into a data matrix
10
containing pathways as rows and the gene sets as columns (represented as a heatmap in (c)). Unit variance
scaling was applied across this matrix. Single value decomposition (SVD) with imputation was used to extract
the principal components (PCs). Component scores of gene sets from GAD-striosome, OCD-striosome,
phobia-matrix, SAD-matrix and panic disorder-matrix (n = 5) corresponding to PC1 and PC2 explaining 64.8%
and 24.2% of the total variance were plotted along X and Y axes respectively. Genes in GAD-striosome, OCD-
striosome, phobia-matrix, SAD-matrix and panic-matrix that were involved in at least one of the five neuronal
synaptic signaling pathways, and showed expression in at least one of the four brain regions that were influential
in producing the pattern seen in Fig. 4a,c, recapitulated the AD groups seen in Fig. 4a,c. (b) Component
loadings of 5 dimensions, i.e. signaling pathways, contributing to PC1 and PC2 shown in (a) were plotted along
X and Y axes respectively. The loading value of the dopaminergic signaling pathway indicated that it had high
influence over the observed grouping pattern. GABAergic and glutamatergic signaling pathways seemed to
have a moderate influence. (c) Pathway enrichment of these gene sets are represented in the form of a heatmap.
Specifically, normalized z-scores computed based on the –log transformed p values, indicating the statistical
10
significance of pathway enrichment of these gene sets, are shown in the figure. The dendrograms were derived
from hierarchical clustering analysis based on the computation of Pearson correlation coefficients between the
data points. The clustered heatmap was created using Heatmapper (http:// www. heatm apper. ca/).
p values of enrichment used for generating Fig. 4a and Fig. 4c. For example, the gene set for GAD-striosome con-
tained the genes shared between GAD-striosome and the four brain regions, i.e., the genes which co-occurred
in GAD interactome and SI, and showed expression in at least one of the four brain regions. For a particular
AD-SMI, the same set of genes was found to be expressed across the four brain regions, which led us to consider
them together in the corresponding gene set. The signaling pathways (KEGG72) that were significantly enriched
(p value after multiple test adjustment < 0.05) in each of these gene sets were identified using WebGestalt73. A
data matrix of the enriched pathways (rows) and disorder-striatal compartment combinations (columns) was
created; each cell contained −log P of enrichment of each pathway. Firstly, on PCA and clustering analysis of
10
this matrix, we observed that five neuronal synaptic signaling pathways, namely, the cholinergic, dopaminergic,
GABAergic, glutamatergic and serotonergic signaling pathways, could produce a grouping pattern (Fig. 7a, c)
similar to that shown in Fig. 4a and Fig. 4c. Out of these, the dopaminergic signaling pathway had a very high
influence on the grouping pattern, and the GABAergic and glutamatergic signaling pathways had a moderate
influence (Fig. 7b). Based on this, we speculated that the conservative set of genes co-occurring in each of the
AD-SMIs and expressed in the four connected limbic structures are those that influence dopamine signaling.
Secondly, we noted that when all the enriched pathways were considered, phobia-matrix clustered alongside
SAD-matrix and panic-matrix (Supplementary Fig. S4), and not with GAD-striosome and OCD-striosome.
Collectively, the gene sets that were examined, as discussed above, contained 84 genes (Fig. 8). Out of these,
12 were known to be associated with ADs (CDH2, DLG4, DRD1, GRIK2, MAPT and NTRK2 associated with
OCD, NTRK3 with OCD and panic disorder, ADORA2A with panic disorder and specific phobia, GAD1 with
GAD and panic disorder, NPY with GAD, panic disorder and specific phobia, GAD2 with GAD, OCD and panic
disorder, and DRD2 with GAD, OCD, SAD and specific phobia). These genes were used as starting points for
interactome construction in our study. The rest of the 72 genes, including three genes that were differentially
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 11
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Figure 8. Network layout of the genes expressed in the influential brain regions in the AD-SMIs. The network
diagrams show the genes having moderate/high expression in the four brain regions that were highly influential
in identifying the disorder groups shown in Fig. 4c, namely, amygdala, hippocampus, ACC and nucleus
accumbens. These genes have been highlighted in (a) OCD interactome, (b) GAD interactome, (c) phobia
interactome, (d) panic disorder interactome and (e) SAD interactome. In each of the network diagrams, green
colored nodes depict genes associated with the particular AD. Red colored nodes indicate genes differentially
expressed in striosomes/matrix that shows interactome overlap with the given AD; (a) OCD and (b) GAD
shows interactome overlap with striosome, whereas (c) phobia, (d) panic disorder and (e) SAD show overlap
with matrix. Orange colored nodes indicate genes that are associated with the particular AD as well as
differentially expressed in the striatal compartment. Black colored nodes are intermediary genes interconnecting
the AD genes. The majority of the red and black colored nodes shown in the diagrams, i.e. genes that are yet to
be studied in the context of human ADs, have already been linked to anxiety-like/repetitive/perturbed social
behavior in animal models and humans (see Table 2). The validity of these genes as candidates for further
investigation of anxiety mechanisms is supported by this evidence and their proximity in the interactome to
genes that have been previously associated with human ADs (i.e., green colored nodes). The network diagrams
were created using Cytoscape (version 3.7.2).
expressed in striosomes/matrix (GRIA2, HTR2C and PCDH10)47, have not been studied so far in the context
of human ADs. However, 59 (82%) of these genes have already been linked to anxiety-like/linked behavior/
physiological states, repetitive behavior or perturbed social behavior through gene knockout, differential gene
expression/methylation studies in animal models and genetic variant studies in humans (see evidence from
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 12
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
each of these studies in Table 2). This demonstrates the validity of our interactome-based method due to two
reasons: we (a) identified other genes that were previously studied in animal models of anxiety using an unbiased
approach from the ADIs, and (b) showed that they were closely connected to the genes associated with human
ADs, thereby providing a mechanistic framework to study these putative anxiety-associated genes in the future.
Discussion
Neuroimaging, neurochemical and gene-based approaches have provided valuable insights on neurobiological
and genetic themes underlying AD etiology9,103–105. Regional neural activity has been correlated with anxiety
traits such as pessimistic valuation and negative affectivity associated with facial expression16,17. Since resting-
state functional connectivity in the brain shares substantial overlap with correlated regional gene expression
patterns18–23, perturbed region-specific transcriptional signatures could underlie cognitive and emotional states
in a nxiety24. In order to capture the complexity of neuropsychiatric phenotypes, such transcriptional signatures
need to be examined within an interactomic framework, in which the effect of a perturbed gene spreads in the
protein interactome and affects other proteins and the biological processes mediated by them. We thus reasoned
that perturbations in region-specific transcriptional profiles may be reflected in the interactome and could
underlie region-specific activity in ADs. Several studies have identified higher-order biological relationships
existing among genes from the functional landscape of the interactome30–33. In this study, we adopted a data-
driven interactome and transcriptome-based approach to elucidate common and distinctive neurobiological
themes underlying six types of ADs.
Clustering of ADIs based on the region-specific expression of their constituent genes failed to reveal any
clustering among OCD, GAD, SAD and panic disorder. Moreover, analysis of component loadings correlated
with PC1 and PC2 revealed that this approach failed to capture regional specificities underlying the ADs (Fig. 2b
and Supplementary Fig. S1b). Therefore, contrary to our speculation, the clustering of ADs was not directly
evident at the level of their interactomes (Fig. 2c). It was evident only after filtering out genes that showed no
overlap with the interactomes of genes specifically expressed in striatal compartments called the striosome and
the matrix (Figs. 4c, 6c) and retaining only those genes that did show an overlap (Fig. 3).
In our study, striatum-expressed genes, which are closely connected to modulators of striatal development,
were found to co-occur in all the ADIs (Supplementary Fig. S2). Genes active in the serotonergic synapse
( KEGG72) were enriched (p value = 1.75E−07) among these 36 genes, namely, APP, GNAI2, GNAI3, GNB5,
KCNJ9, MAPK1, MAPK3, PRKCA and SLC6A4 (serotonin transporter). The fact that selective serotonin reup-
take inhibitors (SSRIs) function as broad-spectrum drugs across ADs (and the highly co-morbid major depressive
disorder)106, led us to prioritize striatum as a focal region, with potential involvement in neurodevelopmental
underpinnings of AD1. Two factors seemed to support this suspicion: striatum is (a) anatomically and function-
ally connected to brain regions that have been extensively studied in the context of anxiety, such as the amygdala,
hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex107, and (b) involved in key cognitive processes impaired in ADs, such as
attention, motivation, fear conditioning and reward prediction e rror107. The main finding in this direction was
that each of the ADIs, except the PTSD interactome, shared a preferential and statistically significant overlap
with the striosome/matrix interactomes (i.e., SMIs) (Fig. 3).
We then attempted to cluster the ADs based on the region-specific expression of genes overlapping between
the ADIs and the SMIs (i.e., AD-SMIs). This revealed clearer clustering patterns among the disorders (Fig. 4c
and Fig. 6c), which seemed to be influenced by regional specificities, with some brain regions showing a strong
correlation with PC1 and PC2 (Fig. 4b and Fig. 6b). The enrichment patterns of AD-SMIs in specific brain regions
may reflect the related brain circuitry, which produces heightened responses to triggers and sequentially generates
anxiety (see Supplementary Discussion)108. The same set of genes contributed towards the enrichment of each of
the AD-SMIs across the four regions that were highly influential in AD-SMI clustering, namely, amygdala, hip-
pocampus, ACC and nucleus accumbens. This may reflect the concerted roles (a) of these regions in the limbic
circuit or (b) of neuronal synaptic signaling pathways across these regions (Fig. 7). Another reason could be the
inclusion of any gene with high/moderate rather than tissue-specific expression in the expression profile of each
region (see Supplementary Discussion).
Our results point to a scenario wherein the functionally distinct striatal pathways constituted by the striosome
and the matrix, act as ‘diverging points’ for the etiological differentiation of various ADs. Genetic perturbations
associated with a specific AD may (a) modulate the interactome in one of the two compartments or even their
progenitor populations, such as LGE (Fig. 6c), (b) influence their functional connectivity with other regions and
(c) govern the ‘route’ of development of key anxiety traits. GAD- and OCD-associated traits generated in this
manner may include internally generated ruminations (involving the phenomenon of interoceptive a wareness109),
cognitive rigidity50 and pessimistic v aluation44,49, controlled by ACC, which targets the striosome c ompartment44.
SAD-associated traits may include heightened emotional responses to neutral stimuli and excessive emotional
contextualization during social information processing, controlled by the amygdala that collates information
from the sensorimotor c ortices110, which in turn targets the matrix compartment. The behavioral traits character-
izing striosome- and matrix-associated ADs could also arise from differential responses of these striatal compart-
ments to reinforcement c ontingencies111 and differential involvement in resolving motivational c onflicts112. Both
these paradigms are intricately tied to anxiety etiology and influenced by dopamine circuits. We noted that the
dopaminergic signaling pathway may be highly influential (Fig. 7b) in producing the AD-SMI clustering seen
in Fig. 4a,c. Therefore, it is possible that the bifurcation in ADs may stem from differential dopamine dynamics,
namely, differential electrically evoked dopamine release113, dopamine levels114, dopaminergic innervation114
and modulation of state transitions in the striatal compartments115, and the preferential striosomal projection
to dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta116. GABAergic and glutamatergic signaling were
noted to be moderately influential in AD-SMI clustering (Fig. 7b). The role of our three key neuronal synaptic
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 13
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Gene GAD- OCD- Phobia- Panic- SAD- Evidence
striosome striosome matrix matrix matrix
ADORA2A AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
CDH2 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
DLG4 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
DRD1 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
DRD2 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
GAD1 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
GAD2 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
GRIK2 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
MAPT AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
NPY AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
NTRK2 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
NTRK3 AD-associated gene from DisGeNET
ACTN2 Differential gene expression (fold change = 1.5, p
value = 0.005) in the amygdala of restrained
C57BL/6J mice versus the amygdala of non-
restrained C57BL/6J mice assessed by dark/light
exploration test and elevated plus maze.74
Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
ADORA1 Increased occurrence of the GG genotype of the
ADORA1 rs2228079 polymorphism in Gilles de
la Tourette syndrome patients having obsessive
compulsive disorder/behavior (p value = 0.021)
and depression (p value = 0.032) as co-
morbidities.76 Differential expression in the
prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
ANKS1B Differential hydroxymethylation and correlated
gene expression in mice region in mice exposed to
early life stress with later anxiety behaviors.77
Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
Continued
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 14
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
AP2A2 Differential methylation in prenatally stressed
young bull calves compared with control bull
calves.78Differential expression in the prefrontal
cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive
disorder patients versus healthy controls.75
APC APC knockout mice exhibited repetitive
behaviors, reduced social interest (autistic traits),
learning and memory deficits compared with wild
type littermates.79
BCAR1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
CABP1 CABP1 knockout mice tested for hippocampal-
dependent spatial and fear-related memories
exhibited a mild anxiety phenotype as assessed by
the open-field test.80Differential expression in the
prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
CALY Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
CBS Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
CCND1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
CDC25B Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
CMTM5 Differential gene expression after stress exposure
in healthy adults with a reported history of
childhood adversity compared with a matched
control group without adverse childhood
experiences.81
CRMP1 CRMP1 knockout mice tested for development of
schizophrenia symptoms exhibited anxiety-
related behavior as assessed by the elevated plus
maze test.82 Differential expression in the
prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
CSF1R Male mice models of adult-onset leukodystrophy
with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia (ALSP)
with heterozygous mutation in CSF1R exhibit
depression and anxiety-like behaviour.83
Continued
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 15
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
DDR1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
DOK5 Differentially regulated in the blood, hemibrain
and spleen of mice subjected to a social-stress
model of PTSD.84 Differential expression in the
prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
EFNB2 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
EPB41L1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
FEZ1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
GABRA1 Increased anxiety in a mouse model of Wolfram
syndrome has been linked to reduced expression
of GABRA1 in the frontal cortex and temporal
lobe.85
GNAI3 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
GNAO1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
GPRASP1 Differential gene expression (fold change = − 1.6,
p value = 0.006) in the amygdala of restrained
C57BL/6J mice versus the amygdala of non-
restrained C57BL/6J mice assessed by dark/light
exploration test and elevated plus maze.74
GPRASP2 Mice with GPRASP2 deletion displayed
behaviour relevant to autism spectrum disorder in
three-chamber social arena test, social dyadic test,
tube test for social dominance, perturbed innate
social behaviour in nest building test and
increased stereotypical behaviour.86
GRIA1 Mice with deleted GRIA1 show a distinct anxiety
phenotype in elevated O-maze and dark–light box
tests.87 Differential expression in the prefrontal
cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive
disorder patients versus healthy controls.75
Continued
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 16
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
GRIN1 Mice with non-synonymous mutation in GRIN1
showed abnormal social interactions and
abnormal anxiety-like behaviors in light/dark
transition and the elevated plus maze tests.88
Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
HOMER1 Mice with overexpressed HOMER1A in the basal
and lateral amygdala exhibit impaired fear
conditioning and autism-like social impairment.89
HRH3 Mice with deleted HRH3 exhibited reduced
anxiety in the elevated plus and zero mazes
involving exploratory behaviour and avoidable
anxiety-provoking stimuli, and enhanced acoustic
startle responses in the presence of unavoidable
anxiety-provoking stimuli.90 Differential
expression in the prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral)
of obsessive-compulsive disorder patients versus
healthy controls.75
HSPA1A Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
HTR2C HTR2C knockout mice exhibited reduced
anxiety-like behavior in elevated zero maze and
open field tests.91
IKBKB Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
KCNF1 Differential gene expression in the ventromedial
prefrontal cortex (fold change = 1.4, p value =
0.004), amygdala (fold change = 1.8, p value =
0.007) and hippocampus (fold change = 2, p value
= 0.008) of restrained C57BL/6J mice versus the
amygdala of non‐restrained C57BL/6J mice
assessed by dark/light exploration test and
elevated plus maze.74
LRP8 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
MAP1A Sex-dependent differential regulation of MAP1A
expression in male mice upon prenatal exposure
to stress suspected to be associated with anxiety-
like behaviors.92 Differential expression in the
prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
MAP3K10 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
Continued
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 17
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
MAPK10 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
MAPK11 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
MARK1 Autism spectrum disorder associated genetic
variants; MARK1 overexpression in the prefrontal
cortex of postmortem brain samples of autistic
patients.73 Differential gene expression in the
ventromedial prefrontal cortex (fold change = 1.3,
p value = 0.005) of restrained C57BL/6J mice
versus the amygdala of non-restrained C57BL/6J
mice assessed by dark/light exploration test and
elevated plus maze.74 Differential expression in
the prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
MAST1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
MPDZ Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
NCAM1 Mice with homozygous (NCAM−/−) and
heterozygous (NCAM+/−) mutations in NCAM
exhibited anxiety-like behavior in a light/dark
avoidance test.94
NLGN3 Male mice lacking NLGN3 were socially
submissive to their wild-type littermates; this
social submission correlated with increased
anxiety in these mice.95 Differential expression in
the prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
NLRP1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
NTM Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
NYAP1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
PACSIN1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
PCDH10 Mice lacking a copy of PCDH10 (Pcdh10+/−)
exhibited reduced social approach behavior, but
no anxiety-like or repetitive behaviors.96
Continued
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 18
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
PRKCA Genetic variant mapped to PRKCA rs4790904
was found to be significantly associated with
PTSD.97Differential expression in the prefrontal
cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive
disorder patients versus healthy controls.75
PRKCD Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
PRKCE Mice with deleted PRKCE showed reduced
anxiety-like behaviour.98
PRKCG Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
RXRA Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
SHC2 Differentially regulated in the blood, hemibrain
and spleen of mice subjected to a social-stress
model of PTSD.84Differential expression in the
prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
SNCA mRNA and protein abundance levels of SNCA
were twice as high in the hippocampus of the
anxious LEW (Lewy) rats when compared to SHR
(spontaneously hypertensive) rats; anxiety was
measured using open field, light/dark box and
elevated plus maze tests.9944% increase in protein
abundance levels of SNCA was noted in the
striatum of anxious LEW rats.99
SPP1 Differential expression in mice that underwent
social stress for 13 days.100
SRA1 Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
SRC Differential expression in the prefrontal cortex
(dorsolateral) of obsessive-compulsive disorder
patients versus healthy controls.75
STX1A STX1AmRNA expression was significantly
higher in the lymphocytes of drug-naive high
functioning autism patients compared with
controls.101 Differential expression in the
prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral) of obsessive-
compulsive disorder patients versus healthy
controls.75
TMEM159 Genetic variants in TMEM159 linked to brain
arousal in the resting state.102
Table 2. Genes present in AD-SMIs that were expressed in the four key brain regions influential in producing
the grouping pattern of ADs (shown in Fig. 4a,c). A colored cell indicates the presence of the particular gene in
the corresponding AD-SMI. The final column presents the literature evidence supporting the potential role of
the given genes in anxiety etiology.
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 19
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
signaling pathways is well-supported in anxiety studies (see Supplementary Discussion). Further investigations
are necessary to delineate their roles in the association between ADs and the striatal compartments.
Our speculation on the potential effects of genetic perturbations on AD etiology is valid when they are exam-
ined as neurodevelopmental disorders, i.e., under the assumption that ADs develop when genetic risk factors
affect the formation of neural circuits that mediate anxiety and subsequently modulate their responsiveness to
anxiety-inducing e vents117. However, a converse scenario is also conceivable, wherein anxious behavior and
adverse events alter gene expression via epigenetic mechanisms and modulate the neural circuits and susceptibil-
ity to ADs (e.g., the genes NR3C1118 and FKBP5119 undergo stress-induced epigenetic alterations)120. Hence, it is
important to note that our results do not illustrate any cause-and-effect relationships among genetic perturba-
tions, disrupted neural circuits/signaling pathways and ADs.
The PTSD interactome was excluded from our analysis as it did not show any distinctive overlap with either
the striosome or matrix interactomes. However, we noted that its mechanism could be mostly, if not entirely,
different from the other ADs. Corroborating previous studies121, the PTSD interactome showed the highest
enrichment for the hippocampus followed by the striatum, substantia nigra and amygdala, a pattern that was not
shown by any other AD (Fig. 2c). This may justify its placement in a separate group (trauma and stress-related
disorders) in DSM-5, unlike the case of OCD, which has been placed in a separate group (OCD and related
disorders) despite its etiology being very closely related to the other ADs.
Specific phobia clustered independently from GAD, SAD, OCD, panic disorder and PTSD in the analysis
with ADIs, which was performed without taking the striatal subdivisions into consideration (Fig. 2c). Lower
enrichment of cortical regions, including the frontal cortex and ACC, and higher enrichment for the spinal cord
and the cerebellum could differentiate specific phobia from the rest of the ADs. However, ADI clustering with
the inclusion of the striosome-matrix division led to its grouping with OCD, characterized by lower enrichment
for the amygdala and hippocampus compared with SAD and panic disorder (Fig. 4c). Analysis with a dataset
containing a larger number of regions again isolated specific phobia from the rest of the ADs (Fig. 6c). This isola-
tion was characterized by a high enrichment of three transitory fetal structures—LGE, MGE and upper rhombic
lip—and the cerebellum and the striatum, compared with the rest of the ADs. Together, these results seem to
indicate (a) the etiological distinction of specific phobia from the other ADs, possibly driven by the spinal cord
and the cerebellum, and (b) a possible association with GAD and OCD during the early stages of striosome-
matrix specification, as indicated by its affiliation to LGE, a focal region in this process.
We used an interactome-driven model to examine the interrelatedness of ADs, using AD-associated genes
as starting points. Our study (a) demonstrates the validity of the protein interactome as a data integration
platform, (b) provides evidence supporting the role of the striatum in AD etiology and (c) proposes striosome-
matrix specification as a key process with the potential to explain the neurodevelopmental origins of ADs.
However, our study has several limitations, and our results should be interpreted with caution. Firstly, we used
cross-species data (in addition to human data) as starting points for the construction of ADIs and SMIs (after
mapping it to orthologous human data). This cross-species approach is necessary to connect research in animal
models to human ADs and gather a systems-level view of the multiple biological levels that affect AD etiology
(gene, local and global neuronal circuitry and behavior). Nevertheless, it is not advisable to draw direct tran-
scriptomic/proteomic/phenotypic equivalences between humans and animal models unless the biological levels
are comprehensively characterized in all the species, and a clear equivalence of factors defining a condition
such as ‘anxious behavior’ is demonstrated in both the species122. Secondly, the reliability of our ADIs could be
limited by the variability in differential AD diagnosis across a large number of studies (compiled by DisGeNET)
from which the AD-associated genes were extracted. Challenges to the differential diagnosis of ADs include the
high comorbidity of ADs, their comorbidity with other psychiatric disorders such as major depressive disorder,
bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, and their occurrence with a range of other conditions such as substance use
disorders, asthma, thyroid disease and complex partial seizures120. Thirdly, our ADIs are static networks, which
do not incorporate data at various levels of granularity (cell, tissue and organism) or spatiotemporal points.
Therefore at this stage, the interactome model will not be able to account for the complex and dynamic events
that influence AD development, ranging from genetic mutations and PPI perturbations to gene-environment
interactions, and the varying developmental trajectories of anxiety symptoms. Lastly, further investigations
are necessary to characterize anxiety as an emergent property driven by specific neural circuits or neural mass
effects. Our study proposes striatum and its subdivisions as one of the several candidate regions that may be
prioritized for anxiety research.
In summary, our study reveals distinctive interactome overlaps shared between different ADs and striatal
compartments and a bifurcation among ADs that are influenced by key anxiety-associated regions and neuronal
signaling pathways. Our study proposes striatum as one of the focal regions for future AD research.
Methods
Compilation of genes associated with ADs. Genes associated with six types of ADs (from r ef55 Fig. 1.
Suggested scheme for exploring a suspected anxiety disorder), namely, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD),
obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), social anxiety disorder (SAD), spe-
cific phobia and panic disorder were extracted from DisGeNET56. A gene-disease association score ≥ 0.01 was
chosen to ensure that at least one publication has linked the gene in question with the disease. Note that ‘associa-
tion’ of a gene with an AD here does not imply ‘causality’ in most cases, and may only indicate an association
with disease susceptibility or behavioral endophenotypes of diseases. We compiled a list of 33 genes for GAD,
109 genes for PTSD including chronic PTSD, 134 genes for OCD including obsessions, OCD behaviour, OCD
trait and OCD personality, 22 genes for SAD, 22 genes for specific phobia including claustrophobia and toco-
phobia, and 93 genes for panic disorder including panic disorder with agoraphobia (Supplementary Table S1).
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 20
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Construction of interactomes. Protein–protein interactions (PPIs) in the human interactome were
compiled from Human Protein Reference Database (HPRD)59 and the Biological General Repository for Inter-
action Datasets (BioGRID)60 using the Cytoscape plugin, B isogenet123. The network building options were:
organism—Homo sapiens, biorelation type—protein–protein interaction, data sources—BioGRID and HPRD,
method—input nodes and its neighbors upto a distance of 1. The extracted interactomes included direct interac-
tors of genes associated with the specific AD and intermediate interactors connecting AD-associated genes. This
resulted in the GAD interactome with 595 genes and 3517 PPIs, SAD interactome with 266 genes and 887 PPIs,
PTSD interactome with 2119 genes and 19,687 PPIs, specific phobia interactome with 634 genes and 4799 PPIs,
OCD interactome with 1718 genes and 15,359 PPIs and panic disorder interactome with 773 genes and 4261
PPIs (Supplementary Data S1). The interactomes were visualized using Cytoscape124.
Construction of striosome and matrix interactomes. Genes differentially expressed in striosome and
matrix compartments of the striatum were compiled from Table 1 of Graybiel et al.47 In cases where the genes
were from other species, the corresponding human genes were retrieved from the Homologene database (https://
www. ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/ homol ogene), these genes were mapped to their human homologs (taxon id: 9606). This
yielded 49 and 19 striosome and matrix genes, respectively (Supplementary Table S3). The striosome and matrix
interactomes with 827 genes and 6274 PPIs, and 213 genes and 779 PPIs respectively were then assembled from
the human interactome (Supplementary Data S2), as explained before in the case of ADIs.
Gene expression enrichment in brain regions. We checked the enrichment of AD-SMI genes among
genes expressed in specific brain regions. RNA-Seq data from the brains of adult donors was extracted from
GTEx57. Genes with high or medium expression (transcripts per million (TPM) ≥ 9) in 13 brain regions were
included, provided that they were not housekeeping genes, i.e. genes detected in all the tissues with transcripts
per million ≥ 1, as identified in the Human Protein A tlas58. TPM is a metric for quantifying gene expression; it
directly measures the relative abundance of transcripts. 9638 genes were considered as housekeeping genes. A
gene matrix transpose (GMT) file was created with amygdala (1953 genes), ACC-BA24 (2269 genes), caudate
nucleus (2229 genes), cerebellar hemisphere (3978 genes), cerebellum (3968 genes), cortex (2706 genes), frontal
cortex-BA9 (2872 genes), hippocampus (1949 genes), hypothalamus (2374 genes), nucleus accumbens (2464
genes), putamen (1892 genes), spinal cord-cervical c-1 (2408 genes) and substantia nigra (1949 genes).
For an independent analysis, a GMT file with genes having log(Reads Per Kilobase per Million mapped
reads) > 2 in 26 brain regions, that are not housekeeping genes, were compiled from Allen Brain Atlas69. This
included amygdaloid complex (4278 genes), anterior (rostral) cingulate (medial prefrontal) cortex (7022 genes),
caudal ganglionic eminence (4303 genes), cerebellar cortex (4580 genes), cerebellum (4563 genes), dorsal thala-
mus (4271 genes), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (4570 genes), hippocampus (hippocampal formation) (4713
genes), inferolateral temporal cortex -area TEv, area 20 (7436 genes), lateral ganglionic eminence (4448 genes),
medial ganglionic eminence (4395 genes), mediodorsal nucleus of thalamus (4503 genes), occipital neocortex
(4457 genes), orbital frontal cortex (4617 genes), parietal neocortex (4443 genes), posterior (caudal) superior
temporal cortex-area 22c (4558 genes), posteroventral (inferior) parietal cortex (4475 genes), primary auditory
cortex (core) (4540 genes), primary motor cortex-area M1, area 4 (4545 genes), primary motor-sensory cortex
(4488 genes), primary somatosensory cortex-area S1, areas 3,1,2 (4520 genes), primary visual cortex-striate cor-
tex, area V1/17 (4528 genes), striatum (4628 genes), temporal neocortex (4384 genes), upper (rostral) rhombic
lip (4480 genes) and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (4575 genes).
The GMT files served as inputs for a gene over-representation analysis (GSEA) based on the hypergeometric
distribution. In this method, the p value is computed from the probability of k successes in n draws (without
replacement) from a finite population of size N containing exactly k objects with an interesting feature.
K N−k
k n−k
(cid:31) (cid:30)(cid:31) (cid:30)
P(X=k)=
N
n
(cid:31) (cid:30)
N = Total number of genes expressed in any brain regions. K = number of genes expressed in a particular brain
region. n = number of genes co-occurring in an ADI and SMIs. k = number of common genes between K and n
(genes co-occurring in an ADI and SMIs, that are also expressed in a particular brain region). Enrichment ratio
is computed as the ratio of k/n and K/N.
Signaling pathway enrichment in brain regions. WebGestalt was used to compute the distribution
of genes involved in a specific signaling pathway in the gene sets that were responsible for the enrichment of
the AD-SMIs in highly influential brain regions, and compare it with the background distribution of genes
belonging to this pathway among all the genes associated with any pathway in the selected database (KEGG72)73.
Statistical significance of the enrichment was computed using Fisher’s exact test, and corrected using the Benja-
mini–Hochberg method for multiple test adjustment.
Principal component analysis. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to capture relationships
between the ADIs, and between AD-SMIs. Negative log-transformed p values indicating the statistical signifi-
cance of enrichment of various brain regions in ADIs/AD-SMIs were assembled into a data matrix containing
brain regions as rows and ADs as columns; each cell in the matrix contained a −log P value. PCA was per-
10
formed with a web-based tool called ClustVis (https:// biit. cs. ut. ee/ clust vis/)125. The data matrix was pre-pro-
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 21
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
cessed to include only those rows and columns that contained less than 70% missing values. The –log P values
10
in the matrix were further centered using the unit variance scaling method, in which the values are divided by
standard deviation so that each row or column has a variance of one; this ensures that they assume equal impor-
tance while finding the components. The method called singular value decomposition (SVD) with imputation
was used to extract principal components. In this method, missing values are predicted and iteratively filled
using neighbouring values during SVD computation, until the estimates of missing values converge. The number
of principal components computed was equal to the number of column dimensions in the data matrix, i.e. the
number of ADIs or gene sets shared between ADIs and SMIs, in our case. PCA essentially transformed our origi-
nal variables (–log P) into uncorrelated variables called principal components. These principal components
10
were ranked in the descending order of the percentage of total variance explained by them. We extracted the first
two components, i.e. PC1 and PC2, and plotted the component scores of each tissue on a 2D plane to capture the
angle of most variability and delineate grouping patterns based on approximated distances between the scores.
Scores corresponding to PC1 and PC2 were plotted along the X and Y axes respectively.
After an initial assessment of potential clusters, we extracted factor/component loadings corresponding to
all the brain regions that contributed to the selected principal components. Component loadings are correlation
coefficients between the variables in rows and the factors (i.e. PC1, PC2 etc.). The squared value of a component
loading gives the percentage of the variance explained by a particular original variable, and essentially its contri-
bution to the principal components. We plotted the loading of each brain region corresponding to PC1 (X-axis)
and PC2 (Y-axis) to examine their influence on the grouping patterns observed on the PC plot.
Clustering analysis. The data matrix of brain regions (rows) and ADIs or AD-SMIs (columns) was sub-
jected to hierarchical clustering using the tool called Heatmapper (http:// www. heatm apper. ca/)126, in order to
check whether the grouping patterns observed in the PC plot are valid. Pairwise distances in the data matrix
were calculated using Pearson correlation and they were ‘linked’ using the average linkage method. Dendro-
grams were generated by merging tissue samples with the smallest distance first, and those with larger distances
later. In the average linkage method, the average distance of all possible pairs is considered while c lustering127.
Data availability
ADIs and SMIs analyzed in this study have been made available as Supplementary Data S1 and Supplementary
Data S2, respectively.
Received: 22 April 2021; Accepted: 25 August 2021
References
1. Gross, C. & Hen, R. The developmental origins of anxiety. Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 5, 545–552 (2004).
2. Chambers, J. A., Power, K. G. & Durham, R. C. The relationship between trait vulnerability and anxiety and depressive diagnoses
at long-term follow-up of Generalized Anxiety Disorder. J. Anxiety Disord. 18, 587–607 (2004).
3. Kyu, H. H. et al. Global, regional, and national disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for 359 diseases and injuries and healthy
life expectancy (HALE) for 195 countries and territories, 1990–2017: A systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease
Study 2017. The Lancet 392, 1859–1922 (2018).
4. Kessler, R. C. et al. Comorbid major depression and generalized anxiety disorders in the National Comorbidity Survey follow-
up. Psychol. Med. 38, 365 (2008).
5. Hettema, J. M., Neale, M. C. & Kendler, K. S. A review and meta-analysis of the genetic epidemiology of anxiety disorders. Am.
J. Psychiatry 158, 1568–1578 (2001).
6. Taylor, S. Etiology of obsessions and compulsions: A meta-analysis and narrative review of twin studies. Clin. Psychol. Rev. 31,
1361–1372 (2011).
7. Kessler, R. C., Chiu, W. T., Demler, O. & Walters, E. E. Prevalence, severity, and comorbidity of 12-month DSM-IV disorders in
the National Comorbidity Survey Replication. Arch. Gen. Psychiatry 62, 617–627 (2005).
8. Shimada-Sugimoto, M., Otowa, T. & Hettema, J. M. Genetics of anxiety disorders: Genetic epidemiological and molecular studies
in humans. Psychiatry Clin. Neurosci. 69, 388–401 (2015).
9. Smoller, J. W., Block, S. R. & Young, M. M. Genetics of anxiety disorders: The complex road from DSM to DNA. Depress. Anxiety
26, 965–975 (2009).
10. Otowa, T. et al. Meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies of anxiety disorders. Mol. Psychiatry 21, 1391–1399 (2016).
11. Levey, D. F. et al. Reproducible genetic risk loci for anxiety: Results from∼ 200,000 participants in the Million Veteran Program.
Am. J. Psychiatry 177, 223–232 (2020).
12. Dunn, E. C. et al. Genome-wide association study of generalized anxiety symptoms in the Hispanic Community Health Study/
Study of Latinos. Am. J. Med. Genet. B Neuropsychiatr. Genet. 174, 132–143 (2017).
13. Stein, M. B. et al. Genetic risk variants for social anxiety. Am. J. Med. Genet. B Neuropsychiatr. Genet. 174, 120–131 (2017).
14. Arnold, P. D. et al. Revealing the complex genetic architecture of obsessive-compulsive disorder using meta-analysis. Mol.
Psychiatry 23, 1181–1181 (2018).
15. Edition, F. Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders. Am. Psychiatr. Assoc. DSM-5. — 5th ed, 203, 222–223 (2013).
16. Whalen, P. J. et al. A functional magnetic resonance imaging predictor of treatment response to venlafaxine in generalized
anxiety disorder. Biol. Psychiat. 63, 858–863 (2008).
17. Hattingh, C. J. et al. Functional magnetic resonance imaging during emotion recognition in social anxiety disorder: An activa-
tion likelihood meta-analysis. Front. Hum. Neurosci. 6, 347 (2013).
18. Anderson, K. M. et al. Gene expression links functional networks across cortex and striatum. Nat. Commun. 9, 1–14 (2018).
19. Richiardi, J. et al. Correlated gene expression supports synchronous activity in brain networks. Science 348, 1241–1244 (2015).
20. Wang, G.-Z. et al. Correspondence between resting-state activity and brain gene expression. Neuron 88, 659–666 (2015).
21. Krienen, F. M., Yeo, B. T., Ge, T., Buckner, R. L. & Sherwood, C. C. Transcriptional profiles of supragranular-enriched genes
associate with corticocortical network architecture in the human brain. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 113, E469–E478 (2016).
22. Patania, A. et al. Topological gene expression networks recapitulate brain anatomy and function. Netw. Neurosci. 3, 744–762
(2019).
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 22
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
23. Mills, B. D. et al. Correlated gene expression and anatomical communication support synchronized brain activity in the mouse
functional connectome. J. Neurosci. 38, 5774–5787 (2018).
24. Sylvester, C. M. et al. Functional network dysfunction in anxiety and anxiety disorders. Trends Neurosci. 35, 527–535 (2012).
25. Le-Niculescu, H. et al. Convergent functional genomics of anxiety disorders: Translational identification of genes, biomarkers,
pathways and mechanisms. Transl. Psychiatry 1, e9–e9 (2011).
26. Wingo, A. P. & Gibson, G. Blood gene expression profiles suggest altered immune function associated with symptoms of general-
ized anxiety disorder. Brain Behav. Immun. 43, 184–191 (2015).
27. Song, Y., Liu, Y., Wu, P., Zhang, F. & Wang, G. Genome-wide mRNA expression analysis of peripheral blood from patients with
obsessive-compulsive disorder. Sci. Rep. 8, 1–8 (2018).
28. Bracha, H. S., Garcia-Rill, E., Mrak, R. E. & Skinner, R. Postmortem locus coeruleus neuron count in three American veterans
with probable or possible war-related PTSD. J. Neuropsychiatry Clin. Neurosci. 17, 503–509 (2005).
29. Su, Y. A. et al. Dysregulated mitochondrial genes and networks with drug targets in postmortem brain of patients with post-
traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) revealed by human mitochondria-focused cDNA microarrays. Int. J. Biol. Sci. 4, 223 (2008).
30. Sakai, Y. et al. Protein interactome reveals converging molecular pathways among autism disorders. Science translational medicine
3, 86ra49 (2011).
31. Lim, J. et al. A protein–protein interaction network for human inherited ataxias and disorders of Purkinje cell degeneration.
Cell 125, 801–814 (2006).
32. Ganapathiraju, M. K. et al. Schizophrenia interactome with 504 novel protein–protein interactions. NPJ Schizophrenia 2, 16012
(2016).
33. Malavia, T. et al. Generating testable hypotheses for schizophrenia and rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis by integrating epide-
miological, genomic and protein interaction data npj Schizophrenia in Press (2017).
34. Barabási, A.-L., Gulbahce, N. & Loscalzo, J. Network medicine: A network-based approach to human disease. Nat. Rev. Genet.
12, 56–68 (2011).
35. Graybiel, A. M. Habits, rituals, and the evaluative brain. Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 31, 359–387 (2008).
36. Graybiel, A. M. & Ragsdale, C. W. Histochemically distinct compartments in the striatum of human, monkeys, and cat demon-
strated by acetylthiocholinesterase staining. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 75, 5723–5726 (1978).
37. Mikula, S., Parrish, S. K., Trimmer, J. S. & Jones, E. G. Complete 3D visualization of primate striosomes by KChIP1 immunostain-
ing. J. Comp. Neurol. 514, 507–517 (2009).
38. Herkenham, M. & Pert, C. B. Mosaic distribution of opiate receptors, parafascicular projections and acetylcholinesterase in rat
striatum. Nature 291, 415–418 (1981).
39. Martin, L., Hadfield, M., Dellovade, T. & Price, D. The striatal mosaic in primates: Patterns of neuropeptide immunoreactivity
differentiate the ventral striatum from the dorsal striatum. Neuroscience 43, 397–417 (1991).
40. Gerfen, C. R. The neostriatal mosaic. I. Compartmental organization of projections from the striatum to the substantia nigra
in the rat. J. Comp. Neurol. 236, 454–476 (1985).
41. Koshimizu, Y. et al. Paucity of enkephalin production in neostriatal striosomal neurons: Analysis with preproenkephalin–green
fluorescent protein transgenic mice. Eur. J. Neurosci. 28, 2053–2064 (2008).
42. Graybiel, A. Correspondence between the dopamine islands and striosomes of the mammalian striatum. Neuroscience 13,
1157–1187 (1984).
43. Eblen, F. & Graybiel, A. M. Highly restricted origin of prefrontal cortical inputs to striosomes in the macaque monkey. J. Neurosci.
15, 5999–6013 (1995).
44. Amemori, S. et al. Microstimulation of primate neocortex targeting striosomes induces negative decision-making. Eur. J. Neu-
rosci. 51, 731–741 (2020).
45. Amemori, K.-I. & Graybiel, A. M. Localized microstimulation of primate pregenual cingulate cortex induces negative decision-
making. Nat. Neurosci. 15, 776–785 (2012).
46. Friedman, A. et al. A corticostriatal path targeting striosomes controls decision-making under conflict. Cell 161, 1320–1333
(2015).
47. Crittenden, J. R. & Graybiel, A. M. Basal Ganglia disorders associated with imbalances in the striatal striosome and matrix
compartments. Front. Neuroanat. 5, 59 (2011).
48. Fujiyama, F. et al. Exclusive and common targets of neostriatofugal projections of rat striosome neurons: A single neuron-tracing
study using a viral vector. Eur. J. Neurosci. 33, 668–677 (2011).
49. Amemori, K.-I. & Graybiel, A. M. Localized microstimulation of primate pregenual cingulate cortex induces negative decision-
making. Nat. Neurosci. 15, 776 (2012).
50. Amemori, K.-I., Amemori, S., Gibson, D. J. & Graybiel, A. M. Striatal microstimulation induces persistent and repetitive negative
decision-making predicted by striatal beta-band oscillation. Neuron 99, 829-841. e826 (2018).
51. White, N. M. & Hiroi, N. Preferential localization of self-stimulation sites in striosomes/patches in the rat striatum. Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. 95, 6486–6491 (1998).
52. Lawhorn, C., Smith, D. M. & Brown, L. L. Striosome-matrix pathology and motor deficits in the YAC128 mouse model of
Huntington’s disease. Neurobiol. Dis. 32, 471–478 (2008).
53. Koizumi, H. et al. Response of striosomal opioid signaling to dopamine depletion in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model
of Parkinson’s disease: A potential compensatory role. Front. Cell. Neurosci. 7, 74 (2013).
54. Canales, J. J. & Graybiel, A. M. A measure of striatal function predicts motor stereotypy. Nat. Neurosci. 3, 377–383 (2000).
55. Goodwin, G. M. The overlap between anxiety, depression, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Dialog. Clin. Neurosci. 17, 249
(2015).
56. Piñero, J. et al. DisGeNET: A comprehensive platform integrating information on human disease-associated genes and variants.
Nucleic acids Res. 45(D1), D833–D839 (2016).
57. Consortium, G. The Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) pilot analysis: Multitissue gene regulation in humans. Science 348,
648–660 (2015).
58. Uhlén, M. et al. Tissue-based map of the human proteome. Science 347, 394–403 (2015).
59. Keshava Prasad, T. et al. Human protein reference database—2009 update. Nucleic Acids Res. 37, D767–D772 (2009).
60. Stark, C. et al. BioGRID: A general repository for interaction datasets. Nucleic Acids Res. 34, D535–D539 (2006).
61. Chang, C.-W. et al. Identification of a developmentally regulated striatum-enriched zinc-finger gene, Nolz-1, in the mammalian
brain. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 101, 2613–2618 (2004).
62. López-Giménez, J. F., Mengod, G., Palacios, J. M. & Vilaró, M. T. Human striosomes are enriched in 5-HT2A receptors: Autora-
diographical visualization with [3H] MDL100, 907,[125I](±) DOI and [3H] ketanserin. Eur. J. Neurosci. 11, 3761–3765 (1999).
63. Robinson, P. N. et al. The Human Phenotype Ontology: A tool for annotating and analyzing human hereditary disease. Am. J.
Hum. Genet. 83, 610–615 (2008).
64. Crittenden, J. R., Lacey, C. J., Lee, T., Bowden, H. A. & Graybiel, A. M. Severe drug-induced repetitive behaviors and striatal
overexpression of VAChT in ChAT-ChR2-EYFP BAC transgenic mice. Front. Neural Circuits 8, 57 (2014).
65. Saka, E., Iadarola, M., Fitzgerald, D. & Graybiel, A. Local circuit neurons in the striatum regulate neural and behavioral responses
to dopaminergic stimulation. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 99, 9004–9009 (2002).
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 23
Vol.:(0123456789)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
66. Aliane, V., Perez, S., Bohren, Y., Deniau, J.-M. & Kemel, M.-L. Key role of striatal cholinergic interneurons in processes leading
to arrest of motor stereotypies. Brain 134, 110–118 (2011).
67. Woodward, N. D. & Cascio, C. J. Resting-state functional connectivity in psychiatric disorders. JAMA Psychiat. 72, 743–744
(2015).
68. Shackman, A. J. & Fox, A. S. (Am Psychiatric Assoc, 2021).
69. Hawrylycz, M. J. et al. An anatomically comprehensive atlas of the adult human brain transcriptome. Nature 489, 391 (2012).
70. Kelly, S. M. et al. Radial glial lineage progression and differential intermediate progenitor amplification underlie striatal com-
partments and circuit organization. Neuron 99, 345-361. e344 (2018).
71. Lavdas, A. A., Grigoriou, M., Pachnis, V. & Parnavelas, J. G. The medial ganglionic eminence gives rise to a population of early
neurons in the developing cerebral cortex. J. Neurosci. 19, 7881–7888 (1999).
72. Kanehisa, M. et al. KEGG for linking genomes to life and the environment. Nucleic Acids Res. 36, D480–D484 (2007).
73. Liao, Y., Wang, J., Jaehnig, E. J., Shi, Z. & Zhang, B. WebGestalt 2019: Gene set analysis toolkit with revamped UIs and APIs.
Nucleic Acids Res. 47, W199–W205 (2019).
74. Mozhui, K. et al. Strain differences in stress responsivity are associated with divergent amygdala gene expression and glutamate-
mediated neuronal excitability. J. Neurosci. 30, 5357–5367 (2010).
75. Jaffe, A. et al. Genetic neuropathology of obsessive psychiatric syndromes. Transl. Psychiatry 4, e432–e432 (2014).
76. Janik, P., Berdyński, M., Safranow, K. & Żekanowski, C. Association of ADORA1 rs2228079 and ADORA2A rs5751876 Poly-
morphisms with Gilles de la Tourette Syndrome in the Polish Population. PloS one 10, e0136754 (2015).
77. Papale, L. A., Madrid, A., Li, S. & Alisch, R. S. Early-life stress links 5-hydroxymethylcytosine to anxiety-related behaviors.
Epigenetics 12, 264–276 (2017).
78. Littlejohn, B. P. et al. Influence of prenatal transportation stress-induced differential DNA methylation on the physiological
control of behavior and stress response in suckling Brahman bull calves. J. Anim. Sci. 98, skz68 (2020).
79. Mohn, J. et al. Adenomatous polyposis coli protein deletion leads to cognitive and autism-like disabilities. Mol. Psychiatry 19,
1133–1142 (2014).
80. Yang, T. et al. Ca2+-binding protein 1 regulates hippocampal-dependent memory and synaptic plasticity. Neuroscience 380,
90–102 (2018).
81. Dieckmann, L., Cole, S. & Kumsta, R. Stress genomics revisited: Gene co-expression analysis identifies molecular signatures
associated with childhood adversity. Transl. Psychiatry 10, 1–11 (2020).
82. Yamashita, N. et al. Mice lacking collapsin response mediator protein 1 manifest hyperactivity, impaired learning and memory,
and impaired prepulse inhibition. Front. Behav. Neurosci. 7, 216 (2013).
83. Chitu, V. et al. Phenotypic characterization of a Csf1r haploinsufficient mouse model of adult-onset leukodystrophy with axonal
spheroids and pigmented glia (ALSP). Neurobiol. Dis. 74, 219–228 (2015).
84. Muhie, S. et al. Molecular indicators of stress-induced neuroinflammation in a mouse model simulating features of post-
traumatic stress disorder. Transl. Psychiatry 7, e1135–e1135 (2017).
85. Raud, S. et al. Relation between increased anxiety and reduced expression of alpha1 and alpha2 subunits of GABAA receptors
in Wfs1-deficient mice. Neurosci. Lett. 460, 138–142 (2009).
86. Edfawy, M. et al. Abnormal mGluR-mediated synaptic plasticity and autism-like behaviours in Gprasp2 mutant mice. Nat.
Commun. 10, 1–15 (2019).
87. Weber, T. et al. Adult AMPA GLUA1 receptor subunit loss in 5-HT neurons results in a specific anxiety-phenotype with evidence
for dysregulation of 5-HT neuronal activity. Neuropsychopharmacology 40, 1471–1484 (2015).
88. Umemori, J. et al. ENU-mutagenesis mice with a non-synonymous mutation in Grin1 exhibit abnormal anxiety-like behaviors,
impaired fear memory, and decreased acoustic startle response. BMC. Res. Notes 6, 203 (2013).
89. Banerjee, A., Luong, J. A., Ho, A., Saib, A. O. & Ploski, J. E. Overexpression of Homer1a in the basal and lateral amygdala impairs
fear conditioning and induces an autism-like social impairment. Mol. Autism 7, 1–15 (2016).
90. Rizk, A., Curley, J., Robertson, J. & Raber, J. Anxiety and cognition in histamine H3 receptor−/− mice. Eur. J. Neurosci. 19,
1992–1996 (2004).
91. Heisler, L., Zhou, L., Bajwa, P., Hsu, J. & Tecott, L. Serotonin 5-HT2C receptors regulate anxiety-like behavior. Genes Brain Behav.
6, 491–496 (2007).
92. Ambeskovic, M. et al. Ancestral stress alters lifetime mental health trajectories and cortical neuromorphology via epigenetic
regulation. Sci. Rep. 9, 1–14 (2019).
93. Maussion, G. et al. Convergent evidence identifying MAP/microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 1 (MARK1) as a susceptibility
gene for autism. Hum. Mol. Genet. 17, 2541–2551 (2008).
94. Stork, O. et al. Anxiety and increased 5-HT1A receptor response in NCAM null mutant mice. J. Neurobiol. 40, 343–355 (1999).
95. Kalbassi, S., Bachmann, S. O., Cross, E., Roberton, V. H. & Baudouin, S. J. Male and female mice lacking neuroligin-3 modify
the behavior of their wild-type littermates. Eneuro 4, https://d oi.o rg/1 0.1 523/E NEURO.0 145-1 7.2 017 (2017).
96. Schoch, H. et al. Sociability deficits and altered amygdala circuits in mice lacking Pcdh10, an autism associated gene. Biol.
Psychiat. 81, 193–202 (2017).
97. Liu, Y. et al. Association of variant rs4790904 in protein kinase C alpha with posttraumatic stress disorder in a US Caucasian
and African-American veteran sample. J. Depress. Anxiety 2, S4-001 (2013).
98. Lesscher, H. M. et al. Amygdala protein kinase C epsilon regulates corticotropin-releasing factor and anxiety-like behavior.
Genes Brain Behav. 7, 323–333 (2008).
99. Chiavegatto, S. et al. Expression of α-synuclein is increased in the hippocampus of rats with high levels of innate anxiety. Mol.
Psychiatry 14, 894–905 (2009).
100. Stankiewicz, A. M., Goscik, J., Majewska, A., Swiergiel, A. H. & Juszczak, G. R. The effect of acute and chronic social stress on
the hippocampal transcriptome in mice. PLoS One 10, e0142195 (2015).
101. Nakamura, K. et al. Genetic and expression analyses reveal elevated expression of syntaxin 1A (STX1A) in high functioning
autism. Int. J. Neuropsychopharmacol. 11, 1073–1084 (2008).
102. Jawinski, P. et al. Human brain arousal in the resting state: A genome-wide association study. Mol. Psychiatry 24, 1599–1609
(2019).
103. Cannistraro, P. A. & Rauch, S. L. Neural circuitry of anxiety: Evidence from structural and functional neuroimaging studies.
Psychopharmacol. Bull. 37, 8–25 (2003).
104. Lowry, C. A., Johnson, P. L., Hay-Schmidt, A., Mikkelsen, J. & Shekhar, A. Modulation of anxiety circuits by serotonergic systems.
Stress 8, 233–246 (2005).
105. Nutt, D. J. The pharmacology of human anxiety. Pharmacol. Ther. 47, 233–266 (1990).
106. Cassano, G. B., Rossi, N. B. & Pini, S. Psychopharmacology of anxiety disorders. Dialogues Clin. Neurosci. 4, 271 (2002).
107. Lago, T., Davis, A., Grillon, C. & Ernst, M. Striatum on the anxiety map: Small detours into adolescence. Brain Res. 1654, 177–184
(2017).
108. Ghashghaei, H., Hilgetag, C. C. & Barbas, H. Sequence of information processing for emotions based on the anatomic dialogue
between prefrontal cortex and amygdala. Neuroimage 34, 905–923 (2007).
109. Khalsa, S. S., Rudrauf, D., Feinstein, J. S. & Tranel, D. The pathways of interoceptive awareness. Nat. Neurosci. 12, 1494–1496
(2009).
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 24
Vol:.(1234567890)
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
110. LeDoux, J. Rethinking the emotional brain. Neuron 73, 653–676 (2012).
111. Bloem, B., Huda, R., Sur, M. & Graybiel, A. M. Two-photon imaging in mice shows striosomes and matrix have overlapping but
differential reinforcement-related responses. Elife 6, e32353 (2017).
112. Friedman, A. et al. Chronic stress alters striosome-circuit dynamics, leading to aberrant decision-making. Cell 171, 1191-1205.
e1128 (2017).
113. Salinas, A. G., Davis, M. I., Lovinger, D. M. & Mateo, Y. Dopamine dynamics and cocaine sensitivity differ between striosome
and matrix compartments of the striatum. Neuropharmacology 108, 275–283 (2016).
114. Brimblecombe, K. R. & Cragg, S. J. The striosome and matrix compartments of the striatum: A path through the labyrinth from
neurochemistry toward function. ACS Chem. Neurosci. 8, 235–242 (2017).
115. Prager, E. M. et al. Dopamine oppositely modulates state transitions in striosome and matrix direct pathway striatal spiny
neurons. Neuron 108, 1091–1102.e5 (2020).
116. Watabe-Uchida, M., Zhu, L., Ogawa, S. K., Vamanrao, A. & Uchida, N. Whole-brain mapping of direct inputs to midbrain
dopamine neurons. Neuron 74, 858–873 (2012).
117. Leonardo, E. D. & Hen, R. Anxiety as a developmental disorder. Neuropsychopharmacology 33, 134–140 (2008).
118. Turecki, G. & Meaney, M. J. Effects of the social environment and stress on glucocorticoid receptor gene methylation: A sys-
tematic review. Biol. Psychiat. 79, 87–96 (2016).
119. Zannas, A. & Binder, E. Gene–environment interactions at the FKBP5 locus: Sensitive periods, mechanisms and pleiotropism.
Genes Brain Behav. 13, 25–37 (2014).
120. Craske, M. G. et al. Anxiety disorders. Nat. Rev. Dis. Prim. 3, 17024. https://d oi.o rg/1 0.1 038/n rdp.2 017.2 4 (2017).
121. Joshi, S. A., Duval, E. R., Kubat, B. & Liberzon, I. A review of hippocampal activation in post-traumatic stress disorder. Psycho-
physiology 57, e13357 (2020).
122. Breschi, A., Gingeras, T. R. & Guigó, R. Comparative transcriptomics in human and mouse. Nat. Rev. Genet. 18, 425 (2017).
123. Martin, A. et al. BisoGenet: A new tool for gene network building, visualization and analysis. BMC Bioinform. 11, 1–9 (2010).
124. Smoot, M. E., Ono, K., Ruscheinski, J., Wang, P.-L. & Ideker, T. Cytoscape 2.8: New features for data integration and network
visualization. Bioinformatics 27, 431–432 (2011).
125. Metsalu, T. & Vilo, J. ClustVis: A web tool for visualizing clustering of multivariate data using principal component analysis and
heatmap. Nucleic Acids Res. 43, W566–W570 (2015).
126. Babicki, S. et al. Heatmapper: Web-enabled heat mapping for all. Nucleic Acids Res. 44, W147–W153 (2016).
127. Mukherjee, P. et al. Lower effective connectivity between amygdala and parietal regions in response to fearful faces in schizo-
phrenia. Schizophr. Res. 134, 118–124 (2012).
Author contributions
K.B.K., S.A. and K.A. conceived the research. KBK performed the analyses. M.K.G. and N.B. provided valuable
inputs on the interactomic framework. KBK and KA wrote the manuscript. K.B.K., S.A., K.A., M.K.G. and N.B.
edited the manuscript.
Funding
This research was supported by Takeda Science Foundation, Sumitomo Foundation Basic Science Grant, JSPS
KAKENHI Grant number JP20H05469, JP20H05063, JP18K19497, JP20H03555, JP21K19428, JP21K07259,
and AMED JP21jm0210081.
Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information
Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at https:// doi. org/
10. 1038/ s41598- 021- 97418-w.
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to M.K.G. or K.A.
Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and
institutional affiliations.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or
format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the
Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the
material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not
permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from
the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http:// creat iveco mmons. org/ licen ses/ by/4. 0/.
© The Author(s) 2021
Scientific Reports | (2021) 11:18392 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-97418-w 25
Vol.:(0123456789)
