Ryerson University
Digital Commons @ Ryerson
Theses and dissertations
1-1-2009
The extraordinary renditions of Maher Arar and
Abdullah Almalki : Orientalism, Islamophobia, and
the erosion of citizenship and human rights
Ian Geriant Lane
Ryerson University
Follow this and additional works at:http://digitalcommons.ryerson.ca/dissertations
Part of thePolitical Theory Commons
Recommended Citation
Lane, Ian Geriant, "The extraordinary renditions of Maher Arar and Abdullah Almalki : Orientalism, Islamophobia, and the erosion of
citizenship and human rights" (2009).Theses and dissertations.Paper 579.
This Major Research Paper is brought to you for free and open access by Digital Commons @ Ryerson. It has been accepted for inclusion in Theses and
dissertations by an authorized administrator of Digital Commons @ Ryerson. For more information, please contactbcameron@ryerson.ca.
r
THE EXTRAORDINARY RENDITIONS OF MAHER ARAR AND ABDULLAH
ALMALKI: ORIENTALISM, ISLAMOPHOBIA, AND THE EROSION OF
CITIZENSHIP AND HUMAN RIGHTS
by
Ian Geraint Lane, BA, University ofPrince Edward Island, 2008
A MajorResearch Paper
presented to Ryerson University
inpartial fulfillment oftherequirements forthe degree of
Master ofArts
in the Program of
Immigration and Settlement Studies
Toronto, Ontario, Canada, 2009
Ian G. Lane 2009
RYBR98NUMWKWTYLIBRARY
Author's Declaration
I hereby declare that I am the sole author ofthis major research paper.
I authorize Ryerson University to lend this paperto other institutions or individuals for
the purpose of scholarly research.
Signature
I further authorize Ryerson University to reproduce this paperby photocopying orby
othermeans, in total orin part, at the request ofother institutions orindividuals for the
purpose of scholarly research.
Signature
11
THE EXTRAORDINARY RENDITIONS OF MAHER ARARAND ABDULLAH
ALMALKI: ORIENTALISM, ISLAMOPHOBIA AND THE EROSION OF
CITIZENSHIP AND HUMAN RIGHTS
Ian Geraint Lane
Master ofArts, 2009
Immigration and Settlement Studies
Ryerson University
ABSTRACT
Extraordinary renditionhas gained significant notoriety as an inhumanepractice against
suspected terrorists in the "waron terror." It is ahighly controversial initiative whereby
many critics contend that thepurpose ofsuch renditions is to subject the suspects to
aggressivemethods ofpersuasion such as torture and otherhuman rights violations that
are illegal in Western liberal democracies. The CIA implemented the extraordinary
renditionprogram, but otherWestern states haveparticipated in therendering ofMuslims
to the CIA's global web ofsecret prisons. Canada was involved with the renditions of
two Muslims-Canadians, MaherArar and AbdullahAlmalki. Thispaperwill discuss their
respective renditions and theideological machinations that fuel the extraordinary
renditionprogram usingEdward Said's theoryofOrientalism and its relationship with
Islamophobia. A lexical discourse analysis will beintegrated into thepaper to evaluate
negativeMuslim identity construction in Canadapost-9/11.
Keywords: Maher Arar, Abdullah Almalki, TheRoyal Canadian Mounted Police,
ExtraordinaryRendition, waron terror, Orientalism, Islamophobia, Muslims.
in
Acknowledgements
I would liketo thank Dr. Anver Saloojee forhis guidance in this researchproject and for
his support throughout the duration ofthe ISS programme. I would also liketo thank Dr.
Tariq Amin-Khan forhis valuable feedback onmyMRP. I am especially appreciative of
Mr. AbdullahAlmalki fordonatinghis valuable time to this project. I am also grateful for
the support Ireceived from myfamily and my extended family duringmy studies.
Finally, I wish to extend amassive thank you to mywife Susan forherunwavering
support duringthe past year and especially in the research ofthis project.
IV
Table ofContents
Introduction 1
Methodology 7
Theoretical Framework
Orientalism 10
Islamophobia 14
Literature Review 20
Human Rights Concerns 26
Discourse Analysis 35
Canadian NewsprintReportage 39
Phase One 40
Phase Two 44
Phase Three 47
PhaseFour:Arar 49
Case Studies: Maher Arar and Abdullah Almalki 54
Conclusion 70
Bibliography 73
September 11 markeda decisive breakin respectforhuman rights. In the name ofa
"justwar" against terrorism, many infringements weresuddenlypermitted. The
defenders ofcivilliberties havegoodreason to be worried. Thegeneral trendofour
society towards increasingrespectforthe individualandindividualfreedoms has been
brought to a brutalhalt. And there is every indication thatwe are now driftingtowards
whatappears like more andmore aparanoidpolice state.
Ignacio Ramonet, LeMondeDiplomatique
LJ
At its core, this majorresearchpaperwill examinethe extraordinaryrendition program
and the ideologies that fuel its existence. This paperwill specificallyinvestigate two
naturalizedMuslim-Canadians: MaherArar and Abdullah Almalki, each ofwhom were
wrongfullyincarcerated in Syriadue to the explicit involvement ofUnited States
intelligence and immigration agencies in conjunction with the direct cooperation ofthe
Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service
(CSIS). Accordingly, it is importantto considerhow these cases have affected the
settlementexperiences oftherespective individuals as well as the Muslim-Canadian
communityin general, which has become increasinglymarginalized with greater
emphasisto securitizationpolicies and overt negative identity construction bythe media
in Canada after September 11, 2001. Moreover, this researchpaperwill evaluate how
Canada's involvement withproviding intelligence on Arar and Almalki to U.S.
authorities, with no safeguards as to their treatment, affects Canada's ability to protect
rights associated with citizenship.
This examination and analysis ofextraordinaryrendition, theviolation of
citizenshipand human rightshappens in a liberal democratic societywhere it appears that
both the state and the dominant section ofthe populace is complicit inthese actions. To
get a senseofhow this happens, this research employs Edward Said's theoryof
Orientalism, and attempts to get abetterunderstanding ofthe phenomenon of
Islamophobia as well as a deeperunderstanding ofhow Muslims havebeenmade the
"other" since September 11, 2001.
Thisresearch paperwill be divided into fourmain chapters. The first chapterwill
identifythetheoretical lens inwhich the research will be evaluated. Since September 11,
2001, theWesternworldhas targeted Muslims as theprimary "enemycombatants" inthe
"waron terror" (Grey, 2006, p. 15). Therefore, Edward Said's theory ofOrientalism,
which shares a symbiotic relationship withthe emerging form ofracism known as
Islamophobia, will be employed to situate Muslims post-9/11 as the "other."
Islamophobia is a form ofreligious racial profilingthat has increased dramatically since
September 11 byWestern institutions thathave overtlytargeted Muslims and Arabs as
potential threats liberal democracies (Fekete, 2004). The term and its ramifications will
be addressed in a subsection ofthis paper. The second chapterwill review literature on
the extraordinaryrenditionprogram and its infringement ofinternational laws and human
rights. This literature review will provide a contextual understanding ofthe program and
link its connection to the first chapter on racism directed at Muslims from the Orientalism
and Islamophobiatheoretical lens. A lexical discourse analysis investigating Muslim
identitypolitics in theimmediate aftermath of9/11 from Canada's two national
newspapers, the Globe andMail and theNationalPost, will comprisethe third chapter of
thepaper to illustrate the increased marginalization ofMuslims. The fourth chapterwill
involve case study examinations oftwo Canadian-Muslims: MaherArar and Abdullah
Almalki who wererendered to Syria in 2002. This section will interpret the international f
i
law and humanrights concerns that thepaperdiscusses in the literature review.
Ithas become apparent that the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United
States induced amajorripple effect that have forced Western nations to adopt
increasingly stringentpolicies. Foreign affairs relationships, defence strategies, and
securitypolicies havebeen dramatically altered to ensure theprotection ofstates'
individual self-interests, and the safety oftheirrespective citizens. In addition, Western
governments attitudes pertaining to immigration havebeen affected by growing security
concerns, whichhavemanifested in greaterrestrictions to migrants ofcertain faiths and
countries oforigin. In the aftermath ofthe September 11 attacks, Arab Muslim migrants
haveparticularlybeen subjected to racial profiling atvariousports ofentry throughout
the world due to theirperceived association with acts ofterrorism. Consequently, the
United States has led the charge against Islam with its "waron terror", whichhas
replaced the ColdWar in thehearts andminds ofpeople across the globe (Welch, 2006).
In effect, the Islamic world has beenreduced to the twenty-first century's racial "other"
from a Eurocentricperspective, but this is not a new phenomenon, as the scholarwho
began to popularize the notion ofa "civilizational clash" and Muslims as the "other,"
claims that the division between Islamic and Western states has been in place for
centuries (Huntington, 1996).
The 9/11 attacks wereunequivocally orchestratedbythe Islamist extremist
terrorist cell al Qaeda, led by Osamabin Laden (Grey, 2006; Lewis, 2003). However,
instead offocusing its might on al Qaeda, American President George W. Bush and his
Hawkish administration in turn viewed the entire Islamic world as representative ofal
Qaeda's core fundamentalist values. According to Bernard Lewis, the American
inferenceis somewhat logical as "most Muslims are not fundamentalists, most
fundamentalists arenot terrorists, butmostpresent-dayterrorists are Muslims and
proudlyidentifythemselves as such" (2003, p. 137). Consequently, the Bush
AdministrationspecificallytargetedArabs and Muslims as theprimary "enemy
combatants" inthe "War on Terror" (McCoy, 2006, p. 171). Bush's flirtationwith the
idea ofan anti-Muslim crusadehas led to the West distinguishingbetween "good"
Muslims from "bad" Muslims, but the endresultis unmistakable: "Islammust be
quarantined and the devil exorcized from itbyaMuslim civil war" (Mamdani, 2004, p.
24). America's vengeancehasbeen exacted inmilitaryinvasions, psychological
onslaughts, and religious posturing. However, theUnited States immensepolitical and
economicinfluence has forced other developed nations to complywith its witch-hunt.
FormerU.S. SecretaryofState Condoleeza Ricewarned European heads ofstate that
weretheyto challenge American anti-terrorist tactics, their criticisms could damage
efforts to protect their own citizens from attacks (Dimento and Geis, 2006, p. 61).
Consequently, in 2003, nations such as theUnited Kingdom and Australia eagerly
joined the "coalition ofthe willing," which invaded Iraq, while traditional ally and
neighbourCanada reluctantlyjoined in its partial participation through its "peace
making"mission in Afghanistan (Ljunggren, 2003). However, Canada is not entirely
absolved from participatingin certain contentious aspects oftheproxybattle against
terrorism. The RCMP and CSIS knowingly surrendered vital information on Canadian-
Muslims suspected ofhavinglinks with al Qaedato the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) and the Central IntelligenceAgency (CIA) (Whitaker, 2008). As a
result, MaherArar and Abdullah Almalki became victims ofthe "waronterror" and
subsequentlyheld in the CIA'sweb ofsecretprisons, known as "Black Sites" throughout
theworld (Amnesty International, 2006). Ithasbecome abundantlyclearthat various
institutionsin the United States and Canada abusedArar's and Almalki's basic human
rights and citizenship privileges with their illegal confinements.
Recently, the CIA's secret prisons havebecome hotly debated subjects in the
mainstream media with the emergence oftorture claims at facilities like Guantanomo
Bay, Cuba; Abu Ghraib, Iraq; Bagram AirForce Base and the "Dark Prison" in
Afghanistan (Worthington, 2007; Sadat, 2006). However, ithas also become apparent
thattheprisons represent significant components ofthe highlycontentious CIA program
known as extraordinaryrendition.
Extraordinaryrenditions were first developed by the Clinton Administration in
1995 as a method to capture Islamist militants and send them tothird party countries like
Egypt where theywould be tortured andpunished for their dissent (Worthington, 2007, p.
215; Mayer, 2005). The Bush Administration inherited the extraordinary rendition
program, but increased its use exponentiallyin the immediate aftermath of9/11. Six days
afterthe September 11 attacks, President Bush gave the CIA broad authorization to
disrupt terrorist activity, includingpermission to kill, capture, and detainmembers ofal
Qaeda anywhere intheworld (Priest, 2005). However, thebreadth ofthe search for al
Qaeda operatives expanded to include those with suspected ties to the terrorist cell. In an
advanced communication age, this came to include many Muslimmen and women like
Arar and Almalki who emerged as innocentvictims ofthe "waronterror."Nevertheless,
itis important to considerthat Arar and Almalki were deemed exceptional persons of
interestbyintelligence agencies in a heightened national security age. The concern with
theArar and Almalki cases is that the state'srole to protect its citizens overrode the
protection ofcertainindividuals' rights, which is problematic.
Extraordinaryrenditionhas gained significant notoriety as an inhumane practice
and an affront to international law and basichuman rights inthe "war on terror." It is
clearthat the program circumvents international conventions and challenges aspects of
theAmerican Constitution and Canada's Charter ofRights and Freedoms. Moreover, the
program's ethos is imbedded in Islamophobia. As aresult, Arab Muslims havebecome
the de-facto rendered targetswhilebeing simultaneously constructed as theracially
inferior"Other". Therefore, extraordinaryrenditionmustbe examinedusingEdward
Said's theoryofOrientalism alongwith a human rights framework. Moreover, it is
important to considerhow thebinary construction and/or deconstruction ofthe "other"
works withinthe context ofidentitypolitics, governmentpolicies, and notions of
institutional racism.
Methodology
Themethodological component ofmypaper will involve two parts. The first
methodological part involves a discourse analysis oftwo Canadiannational newspapers'
coverageofMuslims inthe immediate aftermath ofSeptember 11, 2001. This discourse
analysis will specificallylook at articles published in the Globe andMailand the
NationalPost, from September 12, 2001 to November 1, 2002, which is the approximate
datewhenthe Canadian publicbecame aware that Maher Ararwas rendered by the
United States to Syria (McCoy, 2006). It is important to examine howtheprint media's
reportageusing adverse language can negativelyconstruct visibleminorityidentities, as
this no doubt has serious ramifications for ethnicminority groups' settlement experiences
in Canada, and in this particular case, Muslims.
The second methodological component ofthemajorresearchpaperwill
investigate specific rendition case studies ofMaherArar and Abdullah Almalki, which
will besupported through the involvement ofakey informant interview. Qualitative
analyseswill be conducted in regards to MaherArar and Abdullah Almalki, who were
held captive in Syria in 2002. There is a significant amount ofmaterial pertaining to
Arar'srendition; therefore, secondary sources will be evaluated inhis case study.
However, Abdullah Almalki has graciouslyprovided his consent tobe akeyinformant
forthisresearch; therefore, the research pertainingto Almalki will draw from secondary
sources and his interview. Almalki's participation inthis research will shed new light on
Muslim settlement experiences in Canadapost-9/11.
Nevertheless, the sample size for the keyinformant interview is extremely small,
which isinpart due to the limited availability and willingness ofrendered victims to
participate in researchprojects ofthisnature. Moreover, the secondaryliterature ofthe
specific case studysubjects draws fromprevious interviews; therefore, furtherinterviews
maybe repetitious innature. Regardless, it is important to considerthe dynamic ofthe
keyinformant interview with AbdullahAlmalki. His interrogation and torture experience
in Syriaundoubtedly shapes his perceptions and experiences. Moreover, theresearcher's
opinions andpositionmay affect the researchbased on their experiences, which inturn
may impact the keyinformant. Therefore, the interview will be conducted in semi-
i
s
structured formatto allow for variables in the questions andresponses. j
r
It is clearthat the circumstances ofArar's and Almalki's renditions areunique; \
I
however, they eachpresent some startling similarities. Bothhave had public inquiries that j
F
i
have found them innocent oftheir suspected terrorist connections. The inquiries have also {
concluded that Canadian officials carelessly surrendered information to American \
1
agencies that ledto theirrespective tortures in Syria (Arar Commission, 2006). \
Therefore, it willbe important to discern from the inquiries thehuman rights and ?
5
international legal violations that occurred with theirrenderings. Moreover, whatwas the j
I
role ofthe stateintheirrespective cases? More importantly, as Arab Muslim immigrants, \
how have theirrespective experiences affected their settlement experiences in Canada, :|
and what havebeenthe effects on the greater Canadian-Muslim community? J
However, itis important to notethat the extraordinaryrendition cases involving
Maher Arar and Abdullah Almalki are onlyillustrative oftendencies ofinstitutionalized
racism and Islamophobia, and maynotbe entirely representative ofwidespread
Islomophobic racism directed at all Canadian-Muslims. Thepublic inquiries conducted
by Justices Dennis O'Connor and Frank Iacobucci have discussed the confirmed
renditions offourMuslim-Canadians: Arar, Almalki, Ahmad Abou-Elmaati, and
MuayyedNureddin. Furthermore, recent reports have surfacedpertainingto other
Canadian-Muslims, namely OmarKhadr, BenamarBenatta, and Abousfian Abdelrazik,
that havebeenprecariously detained due to their suspected ties with al Qaeda.
Nevertheless, thenumber ofconfirmed rendition cases ofMuslims-Canadians is small;
therefore, itisimportant to considerthe extent in which generalizations canbe inferred
based on thelimited number ofcases in Canada. Consequently, both Arar andAlmalki
mustbe deemed as exceptional cases to avoid larger generalizations; however, the
impacts oftheircases have had serious ramifications forthe Canadian-Muslim
community, which will be addressed laterin the paper.
Theoretical Framework: Orientalism
Historically, discourses around race have worked to produce ideologies pertainingto the
construction ofthe "other" (Holt, 2000). From colonialism's initial stages where slavery
was employed to conquerperceived "uncivilized" races for thebenefit ofEuropean
expansion, individuals from the "other" categoryhave represented a significant
marginalized social fragment. Interest in global expansion encouraged Europeans to gain
and subsequentlymaintainpowerby constructing ahierarchical system where "race
became the framework ofranked categories segmenting the humanpopulation" (Sanjek,
1994, p.l). Through systems ofracial classification, subjugated individuals were confined
to particular identities thatmaintained theirinferiorrank in the engineered social order
(Omi and Winant, 1994). Despite efforts to eradicateideas that encourage both biological
and cultural inferiority, race continues to influence the "social ordering ofperceptions
andpolicies in the pervasive racism that has plagued the globe following the 1500s"
(Sanjek, 1994, p. 1). Currently, the ideas around race and racism havebecome prominent
in the division between Arabian Islamic nations and Eurocentric societies in thepost-
September 11, 2001 era.
Given that the extraordinaryrenditionprogram targets specific ethno-religious J
men and women ofMiddle Eastern origins, it is impossible to ignoreEdward Said's f
seminal theory ofOrientalism. Said discusses Europe's construction ofMiddle Eastern
identities as the supposedlyinferior "other." According to Said, "Orientalism is a style of
thought based upon an ontological and epistemological distinctionmadebetween the
'Orient' and the 'Occident.' Thus a very largemass ofwriters have accepted the basic
distinctionbetween East and West as the startingpoint for elaboratetheories concerning
10
the Orient" (Said, 1978, pp. 2-3). Moreover, Orientalism can serve as a "collective notion
identifying 'us' Europeans as against all 'those' non-Europeans, and indeed it canbe
argued that themajor component in European culture ispreciselywhatmadethat culture
hegemonicbothin and outside Europe: the idea ofEuropeanidentity as a superior one in
comparison with all non-European peoples and cultures" (Said, 1978, p. 7). Said's
discussion was largely situated in Europe's colonial expansionphase; however, the
theory can be interpolated in a contemporary framework when examining the division
between Islamic and Christian states inthe earlytwenty-first century.
It is important to consider that Orientalism reflects an ideology that is more about
European identityin comparison to othergroups, which is manifested through the notion
that in orderto define self, one must first define the other. Eurocentric identities thus
become thereferencepoint on which to compare and construct all other identities. In
essence, the emergingnotion ofwhiteness, and its various attributes such as privilege, is
perceived as the standard that is used in comparison to all otherraces. Therefore,
constructingthe Orient says more aboutEuropeans' senseofidentitythan it does about
Afro-Asiatic cultures. As a result, this canbe construed as generalizing other cultures
based on theuniversalizing ofEuropean culture to all "non-Europeans." European
culture, whichisperceived as the dominant culture group, exercises this pervasive
structuring ofuniversalism to reinforce specific ideologies in orderto legitimate
economic, political, and social hierarchies that impact racial divisions, which clearly
illustrates theirprivilege in comparison to otherraces (Teelucksingh, Racial Discourse,
January 20, 2009).
11
The extraordinaryrenditionprogram is almost exclusively applied to Muslims in
an effort to demonize and paintMuslimmen andboys as potential "terrorists" or "enemy
combatants," which is imbedded in thenotion ofthe "other." Moreover, it is important to
consider thatthe implementation oftheprogram by theUnited States, and its Western
allies, serves to project the idea ofwhiteness in the form ofIslamophobia. In observing
these developments, one can invoke the ideas ofSaid to identify the treatment of
Muslims inthepost-9/11 period as Orientalist in nature. Therefore, the extraordinary
renditionprogram can thus beinterpreted as a form ofnew Orientalism, as Eurocentric
nations liketheUnited States and Canada havejustified the implementation ofthe
program, which views Muslims as enemies and fosters the "us" versus "them" ideology,
drawingtheirideological wellspring from Samuel Huntington's work on the new post
Cold Warthreat to thehegemonyofthe United States (Huntington, 1996). Said argued,
"The Oriental was linked thus to the elements in Western society (delinquents, the insane,
women, thepoor) having in common an identitybest described as lamentably alien...
Since the Oriental was a memberofa subject race, hehad to be subjected: it was that
simple" (Said, 2007, p. 47). Said's ideas canbee intheir contemporary application
through theutterances ofUnited States President George W. Bush, who in a 2003 speech
outlined his administration's view ofwhat can onlybe considered as the "Orient":
Events during thepast two years have set beforeus the clearest ofdivides:
between those who seek order, and those who spread chaos; between those
whowork for peaceful change, and those who adopt the methods of
gangsters; between thosewho honor the rights ofman, and those who
deliberately take the lives ofmen and women and children withoutmercy or
shame. Between these alternatives there is no neutral ground (Hanson,
2009).
12
Consequently, since September 11, 2001, Western governments and influential
institutions such as the newsprint mediahave increasingly cometo view Middle Eastern
Muslim men and women as archaic radical savages that pose significant threats to
democratic states. As aresult, the economic, political, andmilitarypower that the
Western world possess has gravely influenced the manner in which the Middle East is
currentlyviewed, which has enabled Eurocentrism to perpetuate and boldly implement
gruesomeprograms like extraordinaryrendition. As a result, Arab Muslims in particular
are confronted with complex mobility and settlement challenges in Western states, as
they are consistentlyportrayed in accordancewith Said's definition ofthe "other."
13
Islamophobia
The divisionbetween Islam and Christendom is not anewphenomenon that arose at the
end ofthe ColdWar, as somehave suggested. Europeans have traditionallyviewed the
Islamic world asbarbaric and uncivilized sincethe Crusades between the eleventh and
thirteenth centuries (Lewis, 2003, pp. 47-50; Huntington, 1996, pp. 209-212). Mahmood
Mamdani (2004,p. 25) cites historianTomaz Mastnakwho argues, "When Christian
societybecameconscious ofitselfthrough mobilization forholywar... an essential
moment in the articulation ofself-awareness ofthe Christian commonwealthwas the
construction ofthe Muslim enemy." Moreover, "theperception ofIslam as not only an
historical but acontinuing threat to Christendom is attributable to stereotypes that suggest
that theArab/Muslim exists in amanner devoid ofspace, time, and history; thathe/she is
effectivelyde-historicized, and unchanging and withoutprogress" (Muscati, 2002, p.
135). However, constructing the Islamic world in the twenty-first century as the "other"
canbe identified within the emergingterm Islamophobia, an identification ofMuslims as
the "other" inWestern states since September 11, 2001.
Westernmedia have taken the notion ofIslamophobia and increased its reportage
on Islam innegative fashion. Therefore, the proliferation ofIslamophobiahas led to the
perpetuation ofinstitutional racism towards Muslims andArabs in Western states.
Sivanandan argues that Islamophobia is a form ofzeno-racism that combined with
institutional racism creates a recipe forconflagration (Sivanadan, 2006). It is important to
note that although Islamophobia and racism are interconnected, there are important
differences. Islamophobia is theracial profiling ofan individual based on theirreligion,
whereas racism is based on prejudice against one's phenotypical characteristics.
14
Nevertheless, this notion ofintersectionalitywherebyrace and religionmeet to produce a
kind ofextremeprofiling thathas led to programs like extraordinaryrendition. The
proliferationofIslamophobic rhetoric has led to the demonization ofMuslims and Arabs,
whichmakes successful integration for the respective groups tenuous inWestern
societies.
Whatmakes the extraordinary rendition program an evenmore contentious topic
is its symbiotic relationship with Islamophobia. Thereasoning that fuels the West's
justification for the extraordinaryrendition program is fear ofIslam and its Muslim
followers. Consequently, the term Islamophobiahas been used to describe Western
sentiments towards Islam. Islamophobiahas been described as a fear orhatred ofIslam
and its adherents that translates into individual, ideological, and systematic forms of
oppression and discrimination (Zine, 2006, p. 239). Naturally, since September 11, 2001
the term hasbeen employed with greater frequencywhereby it has becomepart ofthe
vernacular. In effect it serves as a term for the Westto construct a racial "other," which
oncemoreis congruent with Edward Said's Orientalism theory.
According to Sheridan (2006, p. 317) "the firstknownprintedusage ofthe word
Islamophobia appeared in apublished periodical intheUnited States inFebruary 1991.
The term is functionally similarto xenophobia and offers a useful shorthand way of
referringto a dread orhatred ofIslam and therefore a fear or dislike ofMuslims."
Islamophobia's link with xenophobia is an important consideration in the discourse.
Gardner, Karakaolus, and Luchtenberg (2008, p. 121)use the term Islamophobia to refer
to an irrational distrust, fearorrejection oftheMuslim religion, and thosewho are
perceived as Muslim. They inferthat Islamophobia is a subcategoryofxenophobia and
15
closelyrelated to anti-Semitism as anotherrejection ofan ethno-religious group. This
was particularly evident with the increasednumber ofhate crimes directed at Muslims,
and those perceivedtobe Muslims following 9/11 wherebythe attacks were predicated
onphenotypical orbiological characteristics. Consequently, the growth in Islamophobia
hasbeenjustified through the racial profiling ofmen with Middle Eastern features, which
is not onlylegal today, it is fully embracedbymany as an acceptable price to pay for
national security (Elia, 2006, p. 156).
Sheridan (2006, p. 319) also cites the seminal work conducted by Allen and
Nielsen in 2002 wherebytheypropose thattheperceived increase in xenophobia and fear
ofMuslims noted throughout manyparts ofthe European Unionrepresented an
intensification ofpre-existing sentiment, which exacerbated latent feelings offear and
vulnerability and aperceived threat ofthe "enemy within." Ifthe extraordinaryrendition
program is undeniablylinked with Islamophobia, then one can infer that Westernnations
who render Muslims are in fact guiltyofxenophobic tendencies.
The construction ofthe Islamic world as the "other" is vitallyimportant for
understanding Islamophobia. Is it rightto largelypersecute an entirereligious sectbased
on the crimes ofa few radical members? This leads to generalizations ofethno-religious
groups, which perpetuate theirmarginalization. The ideologybehind Islamophobiahas
led to alarmism that is concerned withthe Islamic threat, which Islam poses to the non-
Muslim world. Non-Muslim simplificationinvolves many obvious issues whereby
terrorism is seen as an activitypracticedbymost Muslims, but can be also be construed
as believing that most terrorists are Muslims (Halliday, 1999, p. 892). The attack now is
against not Islam as a faith but Muslims asapeople, the latter grouping together all,
16
especiallyimmigrants, who mightbe coveredby theterm. Equally, the Islamophobic
attack is against states, which mayorhavebeen amongthe most secularin the world,
such as Iraq. Therefore, Islamophobialeads to negative stereotyping wherebythe enemy
is not a faith ora culture, but apeople (Halliday, 1999, p. 898).
Theproliferation ofthe term Islamophobia canbe attributed to the West's
sensational mediarepresentations ofIslam. "The silencemaintained by themedia
regardingMuslimsuntil they areperceived as a threatmeans that Muslims become
visible as apeople only when theyrepresent threats as Muslims" (Gottschalk and
Greenberg, 2008, p. 143). This has led to the wrongful assumption that Islam is
monolithic andthat all Muslims have terrorist leanings. This is compounded when the
media incorrectlyrepresents Muslims. According to formerUnited Nations Secretary-
General Kofi Annan (December 7, 2004), Islam has been distorted and taken out of
context, withparticular acts orpractices being taken to represent orto symbolize a rich
and complex faith, which is obviouslyproblematic. This is particularly evident in
Westernmotionpictures. "WheneverMuslims are represented, theyinvariably appeared
in therole ofvillains—and always as foreigners—Arabs, not Arab Americans. This
unique distancingis best understood when one thinks ofotherreligious minorities in the
United States who, while recognized as minorities, arenotnecessarilyperceived as
foreigners" (Elia, 2006, p. 156).
To compound the matter, theUnited States and otherWestern countries are
currentlywitnessing a growth inthenumber ofMuslim residents, but unfortunatelythey
are also experiencing increased Islamophobic tendencies. Gardner et al. cite an Australian
newspaper articlethat clearlydemonizes Muslims in the aftermath of9/11. "Unlike
17
Mohammed, Christ didnot slaughterunbelievers, executewomenwho sangrude songs
about him, cut offthelimbs ofapostates, sleep with awomanwhose familyhe hadjust
killed, have sexwith anine-year-old, urge themurder ofJews, authorize thebeating of
wives ... and promiseheaven above all to those who made waron infidels" (2008, p.
125). This report was no doubt extreme innature and a clearmisrepresentation of
Mohamed, but this negative mentalityhasbeen supported throughoutthe world, which {
I
has led to human rights concerns such as racial profiling atbordercrossings and ports of j
entry. Moreover, ithasbecome clearthat themedia has a roleinnegatively constructing j
racial identities, which demonizes Muslims and furthers the notion of"us" versus "them." •
Some scholars have argued that themedia is in effect perpetuating negative i
stereotypes ofthe Islamicworld, which leads to racial profiling. Racial profilingis said to j
exist when members ofcertain racial or ethnic groups become subjectto greaterlevels of
§
criminaljustice surveillance than others. Therefore, it is typicallydefined as a racial J
disparity in police stop and search practices, racial differences in customs searches at s
t
airports and border crossings, increased policepatrols in racial minorityneighbourhoods, \
andundercover activities or sting operations which selectivelytargetparticular ethnic
groups (Wortley and Tanner, 2005). This premise can also lead oneto include the
extraordinaryrenditionprogram as apreventative paradigm that seeks to limit the
movements ofMuslims, which is predicated on the fear offurther attacks like September
11. As a result, the increase in Islamophobiahas led to an increasein securitymeasures
and theracial profiling ofMuslims.
Nevertheless, the discourse relatingto the extraordinaryrendition program rarely
discusses its roots in Islamophobia. Moreover, the discussion revolves around Western
18
perceptions ofMuslims, but omits Muslims' perception oftheWest. Muslims' thoughts
and sentiments towards the Westhavebeen displaced from thenarrative, or in many
cases completely absent. The discourse concentrates on Muslims as the specific targets in
the "war on terror", but fails to examinehow overt Islamophobic programs like
extraordinaryrendition affect Muslim settlement experiences. Moreover, it is important
to consider the how Muslim communities inWestern states cope and adapt to the
increased securitization and racial profilingdirected at them.
19
Literature Review
The ColdWarwas an ideological conflict stagedbetween the world's two most dominant
militarypowers. Yet, "as the Cold War dissolved, the Soviet menace was replaced with
the putative threat ofIslam" (Welch, 2006, p. 58). After September 11 2001, the world
has experienced an increased division between two ofthe most reactionaryreligious
faiths. Consequently, some Christians and Muslims have adopted intensemeasures in an
attemptto gain retribution forreal and perceived crimes against theirrespective
followers. In the West, the events ofSeptember 11 catalyzed the transition fromborder
securityto national security, resulting in widespread efforts to identifythreats. This shift
in perception that all spaces arevulnerable is evidenced in the claim thatborders, air
cargo, ports, and railways are open to exploitationbyterrorists and organized criminals.
(Kruger, Mulder, and Korenic, 2004, p. 82). In effect, the vulnerabilitythat September 11
induced acted as a cathartic event that pushed liberal democratic societies to adopt
regressive and conservativepolicies that serve to evadebasic humanrightsby targeting
certain ethno-religious groups. "National securityis once again centre stage and once
again in need ofcreativerethinking about how to reconcile securitywithrespect for
humanrights and civil liberties" (Whitaker, 2008, p. 38).
Furthermore, ithasbecome apparent that the United States, forinstance, has
selectivelyignored its recentpast with the terroristtransgressions oftheUnabomber (Ted
Kaczynski), Timothy McVeigh, and the Washington Sniper (John AllenMuhammad) and
focusedits attention on Middle Eastern Muslims as the solitarythreat to thenation.
Consequently, the West has racially constructed Arabs and Muslims as "enemy
combatants" that threaten Christianity and the liberal democratic states that support the
20
religion (Worthington, 2007, p. 215). On September 17, 2001 president Bush addressed
the U.S. Armed Forces at the Pentagon claimingthat the new enemyinthe "War on
Terror" was sufficientlybarbaric tojustifyhuntingthem down (Bowker, 2005, p. 183).
As a result, in orderto protect thevarious border crossingsthe United States has
deployed the extraordinaryrendition program as a measure to prevent another September
11 (Grey, 2006; Fischer, 2008). Yet, it is important to ask ifthe actions ofthe United
States are truly in thebest interests ofits citizens as thejudicial and constitutional
implications ofsuch programs are severelyproblematic. "Thepractice ofextraordinary
rendition raises fundamental questions aboutpriorities and means-end considerations.
There are, for instance, the issues ofwhether an end, in this instancethe presumed
protection ofthepublic, is sufficient to overcome objections to themeans, the
kidnappings and the torture" (Dimento and Geis, 2006, p. 36).
There are debates on when the extraordinaryrenditionprogram was first
developed. Accordingto law scholars Dimento and Geis (2006, p. 39), "Extraordinary
rendition was employed underpresident Ronald Reagan as atactic to allow U.S. law
enforcement agenciesto deal with wantedpersons in so-called lawless states such as
Lebanon." However, a significant contingent argues that theprogram was developed
during Bill Clinton'spresidencyin themid-1990s (Grey, 2004; Mayer 2005;
Worthington, 2007). Accordingto Michael Scheuer, a formerhigh-ranking CIA officer
during Clinton's tenure, the motivationbehind the development ofthe program was
inevitable. "We were turning into voyeurs. Weknew where thesepeople were, but we
couldn't capture thembecause wehad nowhereto take them. The agency realized that we
21
had to comeup with athirdparty... The obvious choice was Egypt, the largestrecipient
ofU.S. foreign aid after Israel" (Mayer, 2005; Pither, 2008).
Egypt and other Middle Easternnations such as Jordan and Syria soonbecame
eager, albeitunlikely, partners withthe CIA therebyintroducing the extraordinary
rendition program as a tightly controlled project to apprehend Islamistmilitants with
outstandingarrest warrants. AndyWorthington (2007, p. 148) defines the extraordinary
rendition program after 9/11 as apreventative operation against terrorism wherebythe
"CIA renders supposedly high value terrorist subjects to its own secret global network of
prisons, orto other countries, where they could be interrogated byproxytorturers without
the CIA operatives having to lift a finger." Robert Baer, a former CIA case officer in the
Middle East, explained in an interview with the Manchester Guardian how theprogram
worked. "Wepickup a suspect orwe arrange for one ofourpartner countries to do it.
Then the suspectis placed on civilian transport to a third countrywhere, let's make no
bones about it, theyuse torture. Ifyouwant a good interrogation, you send someone to
Jordan. Ifyouwant them to bekilled, you send them to Egypt or Syria" (Pither, 2008, p.
101). In addition, another former CIA operative explains theprogram in even cruder
terms: "Wedon'tkick the shit out ofthem. We send them to other countries so they can
kick the shit out ofthem" (Worthington, p. 216). The events of9/11 provided the United
States and otherliberal democracies that teetered on conservatism with the impetus to
implementprograms such as extraordinary rendition, which clearly circumventhuman
rights treaties,to prevent imminentthreats. However, the defiance ofinternational and
domestic law exemplifies an Eurocentrism and an Orientalist understanding ofMuslims
and Islam thatitproduces ajustification for the unfairglobal targeting ofArabs and
22
Muslims.
Nevertheless, the extraordinaryrenditionprogram was considered a small operation
underthe Clinton Administration. Oncemore, Michael Scheuer in atestimonybefore a
subcommittee on international relations describinghis role in the initial stages ofthe
program stated:
I authored it and thenran and managed it against al Qaeda leaders and other
Sunni Islamists from August, 1995, until June, 1999. Thepurposewas to take
men offthe street who were planning orhadbeen involved in attacks on the
United States or its allies and to seize hard copy or electronic documents in
theirpossession when arrested. However, interrogation was never a goal
underPresident Clinton" (Lobel, 2008, p.1419).
It was deemed extraordinarybecause it was onlyused in exceptional circumstances;
however, this changed dramatically after 9/11. Theprogram was originally carried out on
a limitedbasis, but after September 11, when President Bush declared a global war on
terrorism, the program expandedbeyond recognition. What began as aprogram aimed at
a small, discrete set ofsuspects came to include awide and ill-definedpopulation that the
administration terms "illegal enemy combatants" (Meyer, 2005, p. 2). According to
Britishjournalist Stephen Grey, "After 9/11, atrickle ofrenditions became a flow, and
became the foundation ofawhole system to tackle world terrorism" (Grey, 2004, p. 23).
The evolution oftheprogram clung to the common denominatorthat interpreted Islam as
theharbinger ofterrorism and the defiant "Other". Therefore, the escalation ofthe
program was also logical, as the surveillance ofpotential terrorists not only on a national
scale, but also a global scalewas farmore tenable in an advanced technological
communication age.
Regardless, the extraordinaryrenditionprogram has emerged as ahighly
contentious initiative, as critics contend that the solepurpose ofsuch renditions is to
PROPHBY OF
23
subject the suspectsto aggressive interrogations that are illegal in America, which
include torture and inhumane confinements (Mayer, 2005, p.l). It is evident thatthe "war
on terror" has adopted extrememeasures that clearly constitutehuman rights violations.
As aresult, the term rendition has beenused as a euphemism forkidnapping (Welch,
2006, p. 167. Essentially, renditions havebeen sanctionedbythe White House, which
allows the CIAbroad authorityto actwithout case-by-case approval from other
government departments (Welch, p. 167). Moreover, the CIA's autonomy and secrecyis
highlyproblematic, which has led to increasing human rights concerns, as a significant
proliferation in thenumber ofrendition cases has been experiencedpost-9/11.
Prior to 9/11 theUnited States rendered 23 Muslimmales from various countries to
the U.S., Egypt, and Saudi Arabiabetween 1993-2001 (Grey, 2006, pp. 269-271). "Since
September 11, 2001, the United States government has reportedly transferredmorethan
100 suspected terrorists to countries thatroutinely tortureprisoners" (Lobel, 2008, p. 479;
Grey, 2006, p. 39). Given the secretnature ofthe program, these estimates are reduced to
conservative guesses, as it is difficult to know the exact numberofrendered victims.
However, in 2005, the CIA had reportedlyoperated 307 rendition flights in Europe since
9/11 (Fisher, 2001, p. 1425). In addition, Human Rights groupshave estimated that
12,000-15,000 alleged terrorist suspectshavebeen incarcerated in the "war on terror"
(Sadat, 2006, p.309). Once more, it is difficult to ascertain theveracity ofsuch reports,
but it is clear that theUnited States hasused prisons and interrogation facilities inthe
Middle East in its global battle against terror.
However, it is important to considerwhat was the reasoningbehind the United
States' motivation for sending suspectedterrorists to Middle Eastern nations, which is
24
largely absent from the literature. Onequestion immediatelybecomes apparentwhen
looking at extraordinary rendition casesunderthe Bush administration. Whywould the
United States send suspected terrorists to Syria orJordan forinstance, which the
administration claimed were state sponsors ofterrorism and widelyknown to practice
torture, and notto allynations like Canada orthe United Kingdom? For instancewhen
looking at Canadian rendered subjectMaherArar, Human Rights Watch (June 7, 2005)
stated, "Notwithstanding the absoluteprohibition on sendingpersons to places where
they at risk oftorture ofill-treatment, the United States delivered MaherArarto the
custodyofa government [Syria] that President George W. Bush would later criticize for
leaving its people a legacy oftorture and oppression."
Accordingto Ismael and Measor (2003, p. 106) thementalitythat fuels the United
States' logic to dictate the terms ofits extraordinaryrendition cases canbe found in
Orientalism.
"Said's Orientalism has provided an unparalleled tool for the analysis ofglobal
cultural and political interactions, specificallythose which existbetween Europe
and theformerly colonized territories ofthe Africa and Asia. Presented in the
form ofadiscourse, the inherent nucleus ofSaid's argument is thatto know
something is to havepoweroverit. More so, powerrelationships turn this
relationship around, and allow thepowerful to establish the terms andparameters
bywhichtheyknow theworld."
Based on this argument, theUnited States knew exactlywhat would transpireto subjects
rendered to Middle Eastern nations: namelytorture. The United States is arguablythe
mostpowerful nation in the world and functions as an extension ofEuropean imperial
ideologies; therefore, its power allows the nation to dictatehow suspected terrorists will
be captured andwhere they will betortured, which is inherent in the form ofmanifest
Orientalism.
25
It is abundantly clearthat after September 11, renditionsbecame a significant tool
inthe "war on terror," enablingthe CIA to kidnap, render and facilitatethe torture of
largenumbers ofsuspected enemy combatants with complete impunity(Worthington,
2007, p. 216). The growing discourses on theprogram; however, do not denote the
institutional racism that is imbedded in theprogram. Evidently, Arab and Muslim men
aretheprimary targets, andmanyhave beenrendered to the CIA's secretprisons around
the globe. Obviously, the term "illegal enemy combatant" is a fluid term underUnited
States interpretation, whichhas led to the widespreadjustification fortargeting young
Muslimmen. The "war on terror" clearly acts as an extension oflong-standing
Eurocentric ideologies, which allows forthe implementation ofsuch contentious
programs despite clearhuman rights violations.
i
Human Rights Concerns I
The "war on terror" has produced serious ramifications forArabs and Muslims i
throughout the world. TheUnited States hasjustified theproliferation ofrendition cases !
as an integral method to combat terrorism, thus they are viewed as necessary stepsby
elected officials whose sworn duty is to protecttheir citizens. However, the cost of
securing and protectingnations is clearlyjustified through the violation ofhuman rights
ofthosewho are categorized as potential threats, as ifa few encompass the whole. Once
more, the foundation forthis ideologyis based on Said's theory, butthis consideration is
largely absent from the literature. Nevertheless, for a countrylike Canada, which extols
thevirtues oftheir civil liberties, it is duplicitousthat they are so quick in removing the
human liberties ofnon-members like BenamarBenatta1 and even circumventingthe
1 BenamarBenattaisanAlgerian-Muslimwho lefttheUnited Statestoclaimpoliticalasylumin Canadain
earlySeptember2001. Afterthe9/11 attacks, Canadianimmigration officialhandedBenattaovertoUnited
26
—If
i
citizenship rights ofits statemembers such as MaherArar and Abdullah Almalki. Yet,
there is growing concern about theproliferation ofextraordinary renditions, asbytheir
verynature, renditions and torturehaveto be carried out in secrecyunderthedirection of
questionablehuman rights violatornations.
Thevictims ofextraordinaryrendition are sent to notoriouslybrutal prisons
throughout the world. "Detainees are sent to countries thathave terrible reputations
regardingtorture and that torture is applied: Syria, Egypt, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Jordan,
and SaudiaArabia are only some ofthe destinations (Rapley, 2007, p. 250)." These
prisons are commonlyreferred to as "Black Sites."
AmnestyInternational has received persistent reports that the USA operates,
orhas operated, secret detention centres in Afghanistan, Guantanamo Bayin
Cuba, Iraq, Jordan, Pakistan, Thailand, Uzbekistan, and other unknown
locations in Europe and elsewhere, including onthe British Indian Ocean
territoryofDiego Garcia. TheUS State Department, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) and the CIA have all declined to comment on these
reports. TheUK governmenthas denied allegations ofsuch detention
centres onDiego Garcia (Amnesty International).
Regardless, one can argue that thetwomost notorious prisons are the American
institutions at Guantanomo Bayin Cuba and Abu Ghraib in Iraq. Guantanomo has
recently comeunder extreme public scrutiny, but its infamywas precededbythe
atrocious humanrights violations ofMuslim prisoners that occurred at thehands' of
American soldiers at Abu Ghraib.
In May2004, the Americanmedia launched a damning campaign that illustrated
the atrocities perpetrated at Abu Ghraib byAmerican soldiers. "Agency officers
conducted harsh, unsupervised interrogations at that prison and others. Newspaperreports
States officials. Hewasheld againsthiswilldespitehis innocenceforfiveyears.
http://benamarbenatta.com/.
27
in September2004 disclosed that the agencyhadhidden at least two dozen detainees
from Red Cross inspectors" (Fischer, p. 1420). Forthe first time gruesome images and
videos wereprovided fortheworld to see (Welch, 2006, p. 111). TheNew Yorker
vividlydescribed some ofthe torture methods conductedbythe American soldiers on
Muslimprisoners:
Breaking chemical lights and pouringthephosphoric liquid on detainees;
pouring cold wateronnaked detainees; beating detainees with abroom
handle and a chair; threateningmale detainees with rape; allowing amilitary
police guard to stitch the wound ofa detaineewho was injured afterbeing
slammed against the wall in his cell; sodomizing a detainee with a chemical
light and perhaps abroom stick, and usingmilitary working dogs to frighten
and intimidate detainees with threats ofattack, and in one instance actually
biting a detainee (Hersh, 2004).
All ofthesetorture methods are cruel and humiliating, but for Muslim prisoners they are
virtual religious death sentences. Naturally, the Abu Ghraib reports and their explicit
associationwith the extraordinaryrendition program sent Shockwaves throughout the
world. "The CIA renditions, together with Abu Ghraib and Guantanomo Bay,
unfortunatelyhave tarnished theimage ofthe United States in the fight against terrorism,
among Muslims and non-Muslims" (Saunders, 2007). However, thenegative publicity
that the United States garnered did not detertheirresolve forimplementing extreme
measures intheir "war on terror." It is abundantly clearthat the American politicians
viewed the state's role to protectits citizens ofgreaterimportance than the violation ofa
few exceptional individuals.
TheUnited States andmany other countries signed the United Nations (UN)
ConventionAgainst Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or DegradingTreatment or
Punishment (Winkler, 2007, p. 50). In fact, the United States was a vocal champion for
28
theTorture Convention. In 1999, in a report to the UN, theU.S. State Department stated,
"Torture is prohibitedbylaw throughout theUnited States. It is categorically denounced
as amatter ofpolicy and as a tool ofstate authority (Goldstone, 2006, p. 344). However,
CIA interrogators in the overseas "Black Sites"have ignored international and domestic
regulations through the implementation ofits "Enhanced Interrogation Techniques,"
which are prohibited bythe UN Convention andby U.S. militarylaw. They include
tactics such as "waterboarding," in which aprisoner is made to believehe or she is
drowning (Priest, 2005). This is in direct violation ofthe International Humanitarian law
outlined in the Geneva Convention, which describes states' responsibilities pertainingto
torture. "International Humanitarian Law prohibits torture orill-treatment ofcombatants
and civilians, in all circumstances ofinternational and non-international armed conflict...
The laws ofwarprohibit torture ofill-treatment in all circumstances, including
refoulement to such abuse" (Human Rights Watch, 2005, pp.16-17).
Nevertheless, the CIAjustified theuse oftorture to prevent another September 11,
butmajorpolicy concerns exist for such atrocious behaviour. "Thepractice of
extraordinaryrenditionraises significantpolicyissues regarding legally acceptable
governmentbehaviour. [It] also provides a context for consideration ofnational values
and the manner in which such values shouldbetaken into accountin determiningpublic
policy" (Dimento and Geis, 2006, p. 36). In addition, "The atrocities that occurred in
prisons like Abu Ghraib were the product ofdecisions thatbegan atthe very top, when
theBush administration decided that Sept. 11 had wiped out itsresponsibility to abideby
therules, including the Geneva Conventions and the American Constitution" (McCoy,
2006, p. 172). Moreover, inAugust 2002, the Human Rights Watch declared that U.S.
29
authorities deliberately trampled constitutional rights after September 11 in a crackdown
that saw immigrantsjailed without cause, tried in secret, and physically abused. It
accused theBush administration ofdisplaying "a stunning disregard forthe democratic
principles ofpublic transparency and accountability" in its response to the terrorist
attacks. "The countryhas witnessed apersistent, deliberate and unwarranted erosion of
basic rights against abusive governmental power" (Khan, 16 October 2002).
After 9/11, the Bush administration's rhetoric reiterated the need to have the
terrorists broughttojustice (Lendman, 2008). It is important to note that therendered
subjects were conceivably viewed as valid threats. Presumably, governments would not
capture, detain, and interrogate individuals unless theywere considered exceptional
threats. However, the extraordinaryrendition program also hasjudicial ramifications. The
harsh and aggressive methods used in extraordinary rendition would underminepotential
prosecutions because a court would exclude confessions or evidence that had been
illegally coerced (Fischer, p. 1416). Moreover, intelligence officers have argued that
information extracted from physical andpsychological torture are often compromised, as
the victims will confess to anything in order to end theirtorture (McCoy, 2006, pp. 13-
14).
Nevertheless, there is significant support fortheuse oftorture after 9/11. Kent
Roach (2003, p. 101) cites a January2002 editorial intheNational Post claiming,
"Torture is always wrong. Yet it is inevitable that torturemay sometimes occurin nations
whose commitment to human rightshasbeen understandablyvitiated byregular
encounters withsuicidebombers. Whether we deport terror suspects to such nations is a
difficult andoften agonizing decision thatmustbe made on a case-by-casebasis."
30
Moreover, Alan Dershowitz (2002, p. 135) argues that torture shouldbejudicially
approvedand controlled in cases in which a suspected terrorist withholds information that
couldprevent another September 11. He also suggests thatjudicial warrants authorizing
torture wouldbe consistent with the American Bill ofRights. However, this reasoning is
tremendously flawed.
Themagisterial report ofthe Association ofthe Bar ofthe CityofNew York
andthe Center for Human Rights at theNewYork University School of
Lawconcluded that the legal and political evidence clearly supports the
position thatboth domestic and international lawprohibit thepractice of
Extraordinary Rendition. Far from being an acceptable tool in the "War on
Terror," ExtraordinaryRenditions are illegal and constitute aperversion of
justice that must be exposed and brought to an end (Dimento and Geis,
2006, pp. 58-59).
Regardless, it is important to make the distinction that the United States is not
autonomous is its participation in the extraordinaryrendition program. Numerous
Westernnations have rendered nationals to theprogram. Australia, Western European
countries, and Canada arejust some examples ofnations that have contributed to Muslim
renditions (Amnesty International). For instance, Canadian intelligence officials provided
sensitiveinformation to the FBI and Syrian government that led to the capture and
subsequenttorture ofMaherArar and AbdullahAlmalki, both Syrian-born Canadian
citizens (O'Connor, 2006; Iacobucci, 2008). Arar and Almalki arejust two examples of
the Westernworld's cooperation in the extraordinaryrendition program. One can assume
that there are countless otherexamples. Accordingto Arar (2007, p. 12), "I now
understandhow fragile ourhuman rights and freedoms are, andhow easily they can be
taken fromus by the very same governments and institutions that have sworn to protect
us."
31
Arar's statement leads to significant questions that havebeenraised in thehuman
rights discourse that addresses individual human rights and theirintersectionalitywith
societies' collective rights. In effect, theroot ofthe concern surrounds therole ofthe state
in protecting societyas awhole bythreateningthe rights ofa few citizens versus
maintaining all individual rights. Accordingto British Scholar Conor Gearty,
There will always be a radical tensionbetween human rights as a guarantee
ofindividuated rights on the onehand and as a system ofoverarching values
on the other. Thepressures inherentin seeking to speakboth specifically
and generally atthe same time areworked through in this complex inter
relationship between democracy andhuman rights, between a community
dedicated to the success ofall and thehuman rights impulse to insist that
each ofthis 'all' should be individually esteemed (Gearty, 2006, pp. 156-
157).
Gearty argues that thisbalance has been increasingly challenged inWestern states
with the growing threat ofterrorism with the 9/11 attacks in theUnited States, the
7/7 attacks in London, and the Madridbombings in 2004. Consequently, "Anxiety
about terrorism has grippedpublic discourse exactly at the same time as [human
rights] has at lastbeen securing centre stage. The two are strongrivals for the same
public space. However, terrorism since 9/11 has launched draconian attacks on the
basic DNA ofhumanrights - dignity, legality and democracy" (Gearty, 2006, pp.
106-107). Therefore, the threat ofterrorismhas increased thetensionbetween
"special rights" and therights of"ordinarypeople," whichhas resulted in calls to
rebalance human rights so as to de-prioritizetherights ofprotected groups and
terrorists in orderto prioritizepublic security(McGhee, 2008, p. 138).
Western states' responses to terrorism can also be construed as regressive
through the use ofseveral questionabletactics. The "war on terror" has launched
physical and mental onslaughts on Middle Eastern nations thathaveplaced human
32
rights inperilous status. Sherene Razack argues that theracistmachinations
inherentlylinked in the "war on terror" havebeen transferred to Western states as
well.
It may seem not entirely surprising that therehas been such a strong
resurgence ofan old Orientalism and an immediate intensification of
surveillance, detention, and the suspension ofrights forthose who are
Muslim-looking. As Western governments have argued, these are times of
emergency and a deadly threat confronts thenation, a threat that warrants
the suspension ofrights. The threat explains, ifnot excuses, the rise in anti-
Muslimracism (Razack, 2008, pp. 5-6).
Canada, whichis often regarded as aprogressive multicultural state is not immune from
Razack's charges. For instance, after 9/11, security certificates havebeen issued for five
Arab Muslims, each ofwho havebeen detained, served extended periods in solitary
confinement, andhavebeen held without charge indefinitely (Kruger et al., 2004). The
impetus forprovidingthe securitycertificates in conjunction with the Arar and Almalki
rendition cases are examples that serve to question the veracity ofnational security
measures thatmaythreaten Canada's human rights records.
Ultimately, the move to national security is embraced by society as a whole, but
victims ofhumanrights violations are displaced from the discourse. "National security
measures adoptedpost-9/11 have created heightened levels ofinsecurity among certain
individuals and groups at home and abroad, preciselybecause many ofthe actions taken
have comeup against respect forhuman rights, international law, treaties, and
conventions" (Dobrowolsky et. al, 2009, p. 22). Moreover, although national security
maybe enhanced, it is at the cost ofencroachments upon therights ofall citizens and the
increased insecurity ofparticular groups ofcitizens (Rollings-Magnusson, 2009, p. 215).
33
As aresult, programs like extraordinaryrendition, which are designed to ensure national
security, serve to furtherignite thehumanrights debatepost-9/11.
34
Discourse Analysis
Traditionally, the media acts as the principal conduit ofcommunication in all societies.
Whether the dissemination ofmaterial isprovided through print, radio, television, orthe
Internet, the media isthe first source that exposes the general populace to current issues.
In the digital age, mass media consumptionhas proliferated and its influence has grown
enormously. It canbe argued that greateraccess to a wide range ofsources has diluted
themedia's integrityand accountability; nevertheless, it has retained its abilityto
solidify, sustain, and even create consensuspublic thought patterns that echo the
dominant culture's beliefs and ideologies. As a result, "Themediarepresent one ofthe
most important vehicles forreproducingthe collective beliefsystem ofthe dominant
culture and the core values ofsociety" (Henry, 1999, p. 135). Forinstance, theprint
mediahas significant influence in constructingvisibleminorities identities. Positive
representations canbe constructed, but negative stereotypes may also beperpetuated
through printmedia's institutional cultural dominance.
The events of9/11 sparked an intensemedia maelstrom across the globe, but
especiallyin countries where mass media forms the backbone ofcommunication
delivery. In Canada, the mediawas predominantly critical ofMuslims after 9/11, which
in effect resulted in furtheringthe notion ofthe "other." Withits close proximityto the
United States, the Canadian newsprintmedia echoed much oftherhetoric that originated
inAmerica. Questions were rampant about who was responsible forthe attacks, which
quickly led to the inferencethat the Islamic world, as theperceived foe ofWestern
democratic states, was to beblamed.
Almost immediately after the assaults, with virtuallyno proof, the North America
media pointed an accusing fingerat Arabs and Muslims. Some American officials
35
blamed Iraq's Saddam Hussein, the usual villain formore than a decade; others
blamedArabs and Muslims in general. The explanations by experts, tones ofthe
announcers and repetitions ofbiased reporting set the stage forArabs and Muslims
to feelbesieged (Salloum, 2002, p. 147).
The Canadiannewsprint mediapublished sensational reports on Islam that had damaging
effects onCanadian Muslims. However, mediaproduction and readership consumption
must be questioned as "the blend ofthe xenophobic fears ofthe 'other', and that of
terrorism, provided media consumers in Canada with a clearpath to the conclusion that
Islam was afaith in which acts ofunspeakable violence were acceptable and that
terrorism was endemic to Muslim and Arab culture" (Ismael and Measor, 2003, p. 102). •
This was especiallyprevalent after September 11 andthe 2006 arrests ofthe "Toronto
17."
Thediscourse is predominantly critical ofmedia (mis)representations and calls for
more transparency and the inclusion ofminorityvoices in the reportage ofsuch sensitive
topics (Henryand Tator, 2002, pp. 7-8). However, negative identity construction has
been institutionallyimbedded inthe Canadianprintmedia since colonialism whereby
immigrants and visible minorities havebeen portrayed as deviant aliens who threaten the
purity ofthenation's dual culture identity (Henry and Tator, 2002, p. 41; Mahtani, 2001,
p. 2). Therefore, the newsprintmediahas long established its institutional and
Eurocentriccultural dominanceby constructingvisibleminorities as the "other."
Consequently, the reportageon immigrants and visibleminorities is limited and generally
framed indeleterious fashion to support the supposed superiority ofEuropean-Canadians,
which wasparticularly the case after September 11, 2001.
Theunder-representation ofa range ofcultural groups in Canadianmedia has
been suggestive oftheirunimportance or theirnon-existence. Despitethe culturally
36
diverse nature ofCanadian society, thatverydiversityis regularlyabsent from media
representations (Mahtani, 2002, p. 101). Evidently, this has madethe transition into
Canadian societytenuous formost newcomers, as they are largelyremoved from theprint
media's narrative. However, when dangerous events or even sensational allegations
associated with immigrants orvisibleminorities occur such as the 1999 Chinese boat
smuggling scandal and the terrorist attacks inthe United States on September 11, 2001,
themedia is quick to cast immigrants and visibleminority groups in a negative fashion.
This has been especiallyprevalent in Canadawith the reportage on Muslims in the
newsprint media post-9/11.
The overall stigmatization that Muslims have received sincethe September 11,
2001 attacks have fuelled negative stereotypical identity constructions. As a result, this
racialized issue has emerged as ahotly debated topic in academic forums, but is largely
absent in the mainstream media. Consequently, the power ofmedia construction may
show that ethnic minorities tend to appear as the causes, ratherthan the victims of
problems (Smith and Ley, 2008). The 9/11 attacks were perpetratedby a small numberof
Islamic fundamentalists that the largerMuslim communityrenounces, but the mediahas
grouped all Muslims togetherwith the common denominatoridentityofterrorist
(Lewington and Peritz, 2001), as the sensationalist coveragemade inthe public discourse
within Canada equates Islam with terrorism and the profession ofthe Islamic faith as
fundamentalism (Ismael and Measor, 2003). Still, the myth makingwhich fuels the
hostile aura surrounding Muslims is rarelyquestioned, and themedia is seldom held
accountable for stigmatizing theiridentities. Moreover, the public consumes the media's
stereotypical generalizations as credible and accurate, which is problematic.
37
Even withthe emergence ofthe Internet, the authoritythat print media commands
is still undeniable. The print media'spower is generallysymbolic and persuasive, in the
sense that ithas thepotential to control theminds ofsomereaders, but not directlytheir
actions (van Dijk, 1995a). Ifpublishedreports are critical ofMuslims then one can infer
that the public will form its opinionsbased on these reports. Such susceptibilityhelps the
media manipulate and promote agendas that are conducive to their institutional self-
interests. Tuen van Dijk states, "Manipulation as a form ofmediapower enactment is
usually evaluatedinnegative terms, because mediated information is biased or concealed
in such a waythatthe knowledge andbeliefs ofthe audience are changed in a direction
that is not necessarily in its best interest" (1995a, p. 11). Theprint media is in the
business ofsellingas manypublications as possible, therefore, sensational reports,
whether accurateornot, will sell more issues. As a result, newspapers andjournalists
employ specific language to attractreaders, which raises questions pertaining to the
media and public's respective accountability in the production and consumption ofsuch
stereotypical reports.
Public accountabilityhas been edged out ofthe process, as the Canadianmedia is
increasinglyimmune to public reviewprocesses, industryorgovernment ombudsmen,
and civil societyorganizations (Ismael and Measor, 2003, p. 102). Henry and Tator
specifically found that after September 11, 2001, "Arabs were repeatedlyportrayed as
bloodthirstyterrorists. Theywere depicted in cartoons as ignorant, cruel, andbackward"
(2002, p. 42). As aresult, the cumulative effect ofconstant stereotyping and
misrepresentation serves to create apolarization between "us" and "them" and negatively
portrays Muslims as "barbaric monolithic terrorists." This chapter will investigatethe
38
Canadiannewsprint media'sreportage on Muslims in the immediateaftermath of
September 11, 2001. Using alexical discourse analysis, Canada's two national
newspapers, the Globe and Mail and theNational Postwill be evaluatedto ascertain the
depictions ofMuslims in Canada.
Negative Muslim identity construction isnot isolated to theprintmedia. For
instance, Hollywood films likePaul Haggis' Crash and Edward Zwick's The Siege have
portrayed Muslims as violentnon-communicative fundamentalists that threaten American
societies. A 2007 report in the Manchester Guardian examined a small number of
Hollywood films and concluded that, "Popular filmsranging from Hollywood
blockbusters to children's cartoons are depicting "crude and exaggerated" stereotypes of
Muslims and perpetuating Islamophobia" (Ward, 2007, January25). The stereotypical
images are also found on television programs such as 24. However, including film,
television, and radio depictions ofMuslims would expand this discourse analysis. As a
result, thetwo Canadian dailynational newspapers will be examined to provide a more
controlledsample size to evaluate Muslim representations post-9/11.
CanadianNewsprint Reportage
There were four distinctphases in the Globe and Mail and the National Post's reportage
on Muslims in the year after September 11, 2001. The first phase occurred in the
immediateaftermath of9/11 where the newspapers were critical ofthe attacks and the
presumed Islamic terrorists involved, which in effectpromoted the idea ofMuslims being
the "other." The second phase occurred at the end of2001 when Osamabin Laden
released videotape professinghis pleasure in regards to the outcomes ofthe attacks that
he orchestrated. Oncemore, thenewsprint media latched onto this and focused its
39
attention on Muslim extremists cells and theirthreat to Western liberal democracies. The
third distinct phase occurred one year afterthe September 11 attacks and served as a
recapitulation ofthe events and the collective effects on the world. The reportage inthis
phase emerged as more tempered than thereportage a year earlier. The fourth phase
occurred a little over a year after 9/11 when themediabecame aware that MaherArar, a
Syrian-Canadian hadbecome a victim ofthe extraordinaryrenditionprogram.
Phase One
Both the Globe and Mail and National Postreported extensivelyon the September 11
attacks, but Canada's two national newspapers approached thetopic from different
perspectives. The Globe, although critical ofthe Muslim terrorists, was quick to provide a
voice to concerned Muslim leaders in Canadawho expressed worrythat Canadians would
not differentiatebetween militant extremists and ordinaryMuslims. An article citedthe
Canadian arm ofthe Islamic Society ofNorth America that stated, "All CanadianMuslim
residents strongly condemn what are apparentlyvicious and cowardly attacks against
innocent humanbeings" (Gadd, 2001, September 12). In addition, a September 14, 2001
article published in the Globe cited the global Muslim communitycondemning the
attacks. "Muslim scholars and spiritual leaders around the worldresponded similarly,
with categorical statements that criminal terrorist acts are sins thathave no place or
endorsement in Islam and could notbe committedby any trueMuslim" (Elmasry, 2001).
The Globe's attempt to abate therise ofhate crimes aimed at Muslims was starkly
contrasted by the reports published in theNational Post.
Stewart Bell immediately set the overtly conservative tonethat theNational Post
adopted after 9/11. "Through negligence and indifference, the Canadian governmenthas
40
permitted virtuallyeverymajorterrorist organization to operate within its borders...
Canada's vulnerability to infiltrationbyterrorists is deeply entrenched. Its refugee laws
are probablythemost lax in the Western world" (Bell, 2001, September 13). George
Jonas (2001a, October 15) followed Bell's leadby suggesting to his readership that, "We
have to fear ourneighbors down the street... a degree ofethnic orreligious profilingis
unavoidable... Though few ofourneighbors are terrorists, some are sympathizers." The
laymen inferencethat Jonas is suggesting could onlyhave deleterious effects on
Canadian-Muslims. The message is clearly divisiveby forwarding the "us" versus "them"
ethos, which compromises the multicultural fabric that Canada clings to forits identity
while in conjunction threatening thepossibility for Muslims social inclusion. His
suggestion that "some are sympathizers" could only serveto spark more anxietyaimed at
Canadian-Muslims, which naturallymanifest in violenthate crimes directed atvisible
minority groups.
Nevertheless, in November2001, Jonas continued his argument that terrorismhad
reached nations such as Canadaby suggesting, "Some commentators on the Palestinian
side ofthe Middle East conflict tryto obscure the threat ofmilitant Islam, whose fifth
columns oftheo-fascist storm troopers have infiltrated Western democracies" (Jonas,
2001b, November27). Fellow Post writer Jonathan Kaywho wrote undertheheadline, A
healthy dose ofbigotry, echoed this sentiment, "We should notpretend that an effective
fight against terrorism [in Canada] canbe waged in a truly color-blind fashion. The fact
is, those whoplot the annihilation ofour civilization are ofonereligion and, almost
without exception, one race" (Kay, 2001, October 18). Kay's statement is highly
evocative and is deeplyracist. Forinstance, it has robbedpeople oftheir identitywhether
41
as Arabs, Bosnians, or Indonesian— all who happento be Muslims. Moreover, Kay's
racism lies in how identities arehomogenized so that a monolith "other" canbe
presented. In addition, reports such as Jonas' and Kay's forward thenotions that Canada,
and arguablyits citizens, must address thepercolatingissue ofIslamic extremism not
only abroad but also domestically. With tangible examples ofincreased violence against
Muslimspost-9/11, these assertions presented dangerous reprisals towards Muslim
communities and further distanced theirhope for social inclusion.
Nevertheless, otherPostjournalists supported the ideas forwardedby Jonas and
Kay, namelyAndrew Coyne, who continued theNational Post's overtrhetoric. "Ifthe
West is serious about confronting Islamic terrorism — ifthe enormityof[the] attacks has
at last convinced us we haveno other choice — then it must also realizethat the terrorists
will fightback. There will be Canadians killed, andon our soil" (Coyne, 2001, September
16). The article suggests that Canadians must go to warbecause hundreds ofCanadians
were conceivably killed in the 9/11 attacks. Heproposes going to war against Islam
without anyregard or compunction. Once more, this is a dangerous proposition, as some
Canadians may see this a call to riseup in arms against Islam, but not in the Middle East,
thewar could conceivably occurin the streets, schools, and otherpublicplaces in
Canada.
In fact, Muslims were targeted in a staggeringincrease in hate crimes. The Globe
published several reports on attacks on Canadian-Muslims. "Acts ofstabbing, vandalism,
and physical attacks havebeen reported by frightened Muslims to manycommunity and
spiritual leaders... An elderlywoman in Kansas woreherheadscarf, orhijab, inpublic
this week — and was assaulted as she sat in herwheelchair. In Montreal, amosquewas
42
r
fire-bombed" (Elmasry, 2001, September 14). The Globe also reported on September 15
that, "Alarm and concern [increased] withthe growing numberofanti-Muslim incidents
documented in the last few days... [Such as] attacks on mosques in Montreal, Oshawa,
and St. Catharines, as well as death threats and other verbal abuse levelled at individuals"
(Lewington and Peritz, 2001). Oncemore, the Globe reported anincrease in hate crimes
directed at Muslims, which was noticeably absent from the Post's coverage. "Hate-
motivated crimes have skyrocketed in Canada since the terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington last week. This is happeningin lock step with a wave ofsimilar incidents in
theUnited States and Britain," (Mitchell, 2001, September21) which put Canada's
multicultural foundation into question. "Canadian Muslims should not suffer forbeing
Muslims...Toronto is praised as a multicultural city, yet all ofa sudden you feel very
isolated" (Lewington and Peritz, 2001, September 15).
Nevertheless, despite the Globe and Mail's clear departure from the National
Post's reportage, the Globe is not entirely absolved from contributingto the negative
identity construction ofMuslims. "This is a show ofpower and strength. It is a show of
cold-hearted brutalityperpetrated byfanaticswho have discarded all pretence of
humanity ormorality. No matterwhat theirforeign political cause, their campaignhas
now lost all international support and legitimacy" (Editorial, 2001, September 12).
Although, the report attempts to calls theperpetrators "fanatics," this is a highly
evocative response and serves to reduce Muslims to aprimitive statethat lacks anyform
ofreasoning. Freedom ofspeech is celebrated in Canada, but reports ofthis naturemay
have serious damaging effects on the largerIslamic communitythat was clearly, and
wrongfully associated with the 9/11 terrorists.
43
Furthermore, a September25, 2001 articlepublished in the Globe cited author Ian
Burumawho comparedthe anti-Semitism ofIslamic extremists with that oftheNazis in
WW II. "Nazi and Muslim extremist demons overlap. World Jewryhas survived the last
world war as a great Satan. Its headquarters has shifted from Moscow toNew York"
(Gee, 2001). There is a caveat atthe end ofthe article stating experts claim that the anti-
Semitism spouted bythe extremists is not typical ofmainstream Islam. However, once
more the language is concerningin its suggestivenature. Although, the article attempts to
be informative, it is aprecariouspiece whereby the consuming publicmay construe
Muslims withNazis. Oncemore, it is important to consider how the newsprint media's
reportage affected Muslims' settlement experiences and their overall social inclusion in
Canada following the events of9/11.
Phase Two
The initial stage ofreportagebytheNational Post largely castigated the Islamic world for
the 9/11 attacks and in effect constructed Muslims identities as a monolithic following
intent onthe annihilation ofliberal democratic states. Edward Said has been a leading
critic ofWestern media's dangerous hegemonic stereotyping ofIslam. "Given the
tendencyto reduce Islam to ahandful ofrules, stereotypes, and generalizations about
faith, its founder, and all ofitspeople, then the reinforcement ofeverynegative fact
associated with Islam - its violence, primitiveness, atavism, threatening qualities - is
perpetuated" (Said, 1981, p. xvi). Nevertheless, as new information on the 9/11 attacks
surfaced at the end of2001, thePost increased its negativereportage on Islam and its
followers. BarbaraAmiel (2001) wrote,
"Islam itselfis splitbetween Islam as a religion that canbe essentially
peaceful -- endorsing the qualities ofcharity and mercy — andmilitant Islam
44
(Islamism), which is intolerant and expansionist. Militant Islamwants to be
the dominant force in the world. Its crusadehas Muslims fighting Christians
in Indonesia, Sudan and Pakistan. Islamismhas been on themove all right,
but it hasn't a chancenow, because it finallywoke up America."
Amiel was suggestingthat America's looming eradication ofIslamismwas acceptable
and should be fully endorsed, but this mayhave ledto vigilantebehavior, as citizens
would moveto eliminate Islamism on theirown accord.
A December 18, 2001 report in the Globe and Mail reported a Christian Pastor,
Mark Harding, who delivered highlyracializedpamphlets relatingto Muslims. According
to the article, Harding claimed that Muslims, "sound peaceful and tryto act peaceful, but
underneath their false sheep's clothing areragingwolves, seekingwhom theymay devour
-- and Toronto is definitelyontheirhit list" (Makin, 2001). It wouldnotbe prudent to
suggest that Harding's beliefs were representative ofthe public's overall perceptions of
Muslim; however, Harding'sviews were not entirelyuncommon. More violent crimes
such asmurders were committedin the United States; however, hate crimes and racial
profiling experienced an increase in Canada (Welch, 2006; Razack, 2004).
TheNational Post again was highly critical ofIslamism, but offered few caveats
to qualifytheirposition in terms ofthe largerMuslim community.
Osamabin Laden andhis ilk, the suicidebombers who preyon innocent
Israeli citizens out shopping or lunching attheir local pizzeria, and fire-
breathing imams from Missouri to Mindanao, referto us as satanic. We are
infidels, but it is also obvious that weprosper. This combination is vital in
making us Islamism's enemy, as thebrilliantPrinceton scholar, Bernard
Lewis, has pointed out. It is because theWest offers auniversalistic
challenge to thewould-be dominance ofIslamism that al-Qaedaand like-
minded groups hateus and seek our destruction (Gurdon, 2001 December
24)
The suggestion that the violent tendencies ofIslamic extremism are motivated bythe core
values ofliberal democratic societies such as universal freedom and capitalism is
45
irresponsible. Thereport simplyinvestigates the extremists' reactions, but does not
adequatelyexamine causal factors suchas endless invasions and Western Imperialism in
Middle Easternnations.
On December27, the National Post published thetranscript ofOsamabin Laden's
address totheworld.
Threemonths after theblessed attacks against the international infidels,
againstthemain infidel America, and after almost two months havepassed
sincethestart ofthe vicious Crusade against Islam, we would liketo talk
about someofthe facts thatthese events have revealed. These events have
revealed alot ofvery important issues to Muslims. It is very clearthat the
West ingeneral, spearheadedbyAmerica, holds an indescribable amount of
Crusaderloathing for Islam, and that those who have lived all thesemonths
undertheconstant bombingbydifferent types ofU.S. planes know this for a
fact (Anonymous, 2001).
Oncemore thePostwas critical ofCanada's role while consistently constructingMuslims
in negative fashion.
However,in counterpoint, the Globe and Mail continued its largelyunbiased
coverage ofMuslims at the end of2001. When bin Laden's video footagewas released
the Globe questioned president Bush'sjudgement ofthevideo and the veracityofits
authenticity.
TheBush administrationreleasedthe hour-longtape, convinced it has the
smokinggun that will bolster shaky support in theMuslim world forthewar
in Afghanistan and its relentlesspursuit ofMr. bin Laden's al-Qaeda
terroristnetwork... Manypeople greeted the videotape with indifference,
scepticismoroutright disbelief. Since Sept. 11, Muslim commentatorshave
called onthe United States to produceproofofMr. bin Laden's involvement
in the attacks (McKenna, 2001, December 15).
This was a cleardeparture from the coverage that theNational Post undertook, which is
evidenced byMcKenna addressing Osama bin Laden as Misterbin Laden. Presumably,
46
T
this is representative ofthe Globe's, and perhaps Canada's common lawheritage, which
clearly statesthat criminal suspects are innocentuntil proven guilty.
David Hirst on December9, 2001 wrote a similar article in the Globethat echoed
the critical message that was clearlyidentifiable in McKenna's report investigating bin
Laden. "...Though his address was couched in the imagery ofuncompromising Islamism,
he did notbelabourhis doctrines and beliefs. Thosebeliefs have only a limited appeal to
the Arab people. In fact — as Mr. bin Laden knows — a great many ofthem pine for those
ideals ofdemocracy and freedom that the U.S. stands for." It is apparent that the Globe
and Mail's coverage remained objective, whereas, theNational Post presented overt
condemnations ofthe Islamic world and ofCanada's response to 9/11.
Phase Three
The reportingtrajectory that Canada's two national newspapers followedwere similar in
September2002. Both the Globe and Mail and theNational Post reflected on how the
world had changed after 9/11. Thereportage was muchmore tempered in comparison
than the initial phase. For instance, the Post, which was highlyvocal in its condemnation
ofIslam, published an article that called forpeace to be embraced. " It Is now time to
move on and come up with creative solutions to the conflicts that haveplagued our
world. Peaceatthe moment is fragile and we all need to rise above our self-interest ifwe
are to preserve it. For those who cherish and espouse freedom and democracy, it is
imperativethatwe championit for all ofhumanity" (Shahid, 2002, September28).
Shahid wasthepresident oftheMississauga chapterof"Muslims Against Terrorism," but
the report inthe Post was a cleardeparture from its earlierreportage. In fact, Shahid's
47
articlemirrored the Globe and Mail's approach forproviding Muslim-Canadians with a
voice in amajornewspaper.
Nevertheless, thePost did continue its negative identityconstruction ofMuslims.
Hymie Rubenstein (2002, September 16) wrote a damning articlethat constructs Muslims
as apoor desperate people.
This is the most dangerous feature ofcontemporary Islamic terrorism:
millions ofotherwise non-violentbutterriblypoor and unhappy Muslims in
dozens ofThirdWorld countries havebeen enculturated to believe that the
alleged greed, arrogance, and hedonism ofthe West are theroot ofall evil.
Thesepoorpeople need rich and charismatic leaders like Osamabin Laden
to guide them in Jihad. Conversely, historyhas shown that thebin Ladens of
the world cannot long survive without the encouragement ofthe
downtroddenmasses.
This report does littleto dispel the negativemythmaking that surrounded Muslims a year
after 9/11. The suggestion that millions ofMuslims are like a large flock ofsheep
awaiting a Sheppard to guide them removes any ability forrational thought from the
millions ofMuslims inthe developing world. This report is congruent with how Said
described the Eurocentric thought in relationto the Orient where the media's production
is not benign (Said, 1981).
The Globe and Mail recapitulated much ofits reportage on Muslims from the
previous year. Oncemore, the Globe provided avoice for Muslims-Canadians that sought
to identify their concerns and sentiments. "...The Council on American-Islamic Relations
Canada (CAIR-CAN) released the results ofapoll about how Canadian Muslims have
fared in the year sincethat fateful day. Ofnearly 300 respondents, 60per cent indicated
that theyhad been subject to some form ofdiscrimination orbias, while 80 per cent
indicated theyknew ofsomeone else who hadbeen subject to the same" (Khan, 2002,
October 14). The report also described policereports that discussed the rise in hate
48
crimes directed at Muslims and compared Canadian Muslims withUkrainians and Poles
during WW I and interned Germans, Italians and Japanese duringthe WW II. Clearly, the
Globe continued to offer an objective and compassionate avenue for Muslims while the
Post maintained its conservative and Islamophobic approach, albeit with a modicum of
tempered reportage.
Phase FourArar
MaherArar emigrated with his familyfrom Syria to Canada in 1989. He enrolled at
McGill UniversityinMontreal and completed his Masters degree in telecommunications
from the UniversityofQuebec's Institutnational de larecherche scientifique (Pither, pp.
50-60). Naturally, when the media was notified that a naturalized Canadian citizenhad
been captured and sent to Syria, therewas significant public outcry; however, once more
the reportagebythe Globe and Mail and theNational Post differed significantly.
October 12,2002, the Globe and Mail ran the first story that discussed Arar's
capture. The title, Canadian deportation causes furor, summarized the article's content.
The report cited Riad Saloojee ofthe Council on American-Islamic Relations Canada,
who argued, "This deportation was illegal, and it has placed the life ofa Canadian citizen
at risk. We are gravely concerned about the U.S. deporting a Canadian citizen without
consultingthe Canadian government." hi addition, the article described Araras a
"respectful Canadian engineer" and adevout husband and loving father, and had
interviewedArar's wife Monia (Cheney, 2002, October 12). However, oncemore, the
National Post took a distinctly different approach. The Post's article described Arar as a
"suspected terrorist," which has farmore dubious connotations. The article was also
extremelybriefand appeared as nothingmore than amerepassing caveat.
49
Two days laterthe Globe again published areportthat interviewed Saloojee.
Saloojee claimed, "The detention and deportation ofMaherAraris a gravebreach ofboth
international human-rights law and Mr. Arar's rights as a Canadian citizen" (Honey,
2002, October 14). The report cites Bill Graham, the formerministryForeign Affairs, and
otherpoliticians who voiced their deep concerns forArar. The Post, however, was late in
its reportage. The first article describing Arar's perilous situation did not surface until a
full ten days afterithad becomepublicly awarethat arespected Muslim-Canadian
engineerhad been forciblytaken hostage and sent to Syria (Bell, 2001a, October 22). The
articlein effect displaced Arar and his predicament from the narrativebyfocusing on the
tenuous diplomatic relationship between Canada and the United States. One can only
assumethat this was abi-product ofthe Post's overtviews towards Muslims, which was
previouslydiscussed, irrespective oftheir citizenship.
The following day, Stewart Bell continued to investigate the diplomatic posturing
bythe United States and Canada in relation to Arar. The article served as an expansion on
the previous days report; however, the last sentence emerges as problematic inference.
"Muslim activists have cited the case as proofthey arebeing treated unfairly in thepost-
Sept. 11 security crackdown" (Bell, 2002b, October23). The Globehadpreviously
provided atangible forum forMuslim leaders such as Riad Saloojee to voice their
concernsoverArar's case. However, Bell has described, presumablythe same Muslim
leaders, as activists. The word choice is problematicbecause the public generally would
inferthat activism leads to protest and dissent: images that are negatively associated with
Muslims.
50
The Globe andMail continued its significant attention onthe Arar case, but the
Post's coverage waned. From October 12, 2002 to November 1, 2002, theNational Post
published four articlesrelating to MaherArar, whereas the Globe and Mail published
eight. The Globe's reportage continued to provide voices forMuslims and to describe
Arar's character while alongside, outliningthe abuses to his citizenship and humanrights.
ThePost again served as a distinct counterpoint in its coverage ofArarby attemptingto
situate the events in adiplomatic arena, and little consideration was given to his character
orthe circumstances ofhis capture.
It is apparent that theprint mediapossess significantpowerto constructnegative
identityrepresentations, which have detrimental effects on newcomer and visible
minority group's successful integration in Canada. MinelleMahtani argues, "Canadian
media continue to broadcast negative and stereotypical images that serve to demean
minority Canadians. Ethnic minorities do not see themselves accuratelyreflected in
Canadian media, and thatmarginalizationperpetuates feelings ofexclusion" (Mahtani,
2001, p. 100). Moreover, when UBC professor Dr. Sunera Thobani delivered a
controversial speech on October 1, 2001 at a conference for the Canadian Association of
Sexual Assault Centrein Ottawa, she was widely criticized in the Canadian press. Inher
speech Thobani citedpastU.S. foreignpolicymaneuvers likethe CIA coup d'etat in
Chile that killed 30,000 people and the U.S. backed regime in El Salvadorthatused death
squads to kill 75,000 people (Thobani, 2001). In effect, Thobani's argument was seeking
to increase the Canadian public's critical dissemination ofmediareports pertainingto
U.S. foreign policy. Itwas a critical speech that argued that itwas not surprising that the
September 11, 2001 attacks occurred, as the United States' actions in developing
51
countries had cultivated extremehatetowards the nationbynumerous subjugated
peoples.
However, themediaportrayedThobani, a visibleminorityimmigrant, as an
"enemy" whosevoice fostered dissent, which echoed the destructive sentiments
imbedded in Islamic fundamentalism. The Prime Minister, all the leaders ofthe
oppositionparties, editorialists, and media columnists castigated Thobani forher
insensitivity andill-timed comments. She received hatemail, death threats, and calls for
herto be fired fromherposition at UBC (Thobani, 2003, p. 403). Yet, Thobani has
resolutelydefendedher speechby clarifying her position.
"I alsopointed out that the institutionalization ofracial profiling in thewake
ofSeptember 11, and the targeting ofimmigrants andrefugees within Canada
and theUnited States as a threat to the nation's security, especially ofthose
who "look" like Muslims, inevitably followed from this logic. The women's
movementhadto disrupt this racialized discourse and challenge the notion
that the Waron Terrorism was areasonable,just, orrighteous response, and
instead insistupon naming it the imperialist venturethat it was" (Thobani,
2003, p. 402).
This certainlyraises questions surrounding the freedom ofspeech in Canada. Regardless,
Thobani's speechand the media's subsequent response were indicative ofthemedia's
power to influenceits audiences' perceptions ofevents.
Michael Welch has identified a significant issuethatis rarely considered when
evaluating theproduction and consumption ofmediareports on Middle Easternissues
associated with Islam. "One ofthemost obvious pitfalls inthemedia's coverage ofIslam
is that reporters and manyWestern self-appointed experts do not read, speak, or
understand languages indigenous to theMiddle East (Welch, 2006, p. 59). Oncemore,
the identitypolitics imbedded in Western media reflects Said's theory ofOrientalism
where Eurocentrism is the identity standard in which all otherraces are compared.
52
In addition, national newspapers like theNational Post, whichlargely echoed
American-conservative reports after 9/11, haveplaced more emphasis ontheir
institutional self-interests while in large part eliminating objectivity. Bernard Lewis raises
a validpoint through his statement that, "Understandably, Muslims complain when the
media speak ofterrorist movements and actions as "Islamic" and ask whythemedia do
not similarlyidentify Irish and Basque terrorist and terrorism as Christian" (Lewis, 2003,
p. 137). Lewis' statement is somewhat ironic, as hewas the personwho initially cameup
with the "clash ofcivilizations" thesis that Samuel Huntington lateradopted. The
National Post clearly exercised its institutional influence in its reportage on Muslims
post-9/11. The Globe and Mail offered amore tempered approach, but cannotbe
absolved entirely ofcreatingnegative stereotypes associated with Muslims. Nevertheless,
"byreductivelyportraying diverse [Muslim] societies into the caricature ofIslamic
Fundamentalism, and by frequentlyrepeating the Orientalist insistence that Islam is a
threat to global stability, theyhave, more deeplypopularized the mythology surrounding
the threat ofthe "other" intheminds ofCanadians" (Ismael and Measor, 2003, p. 126).
53
Case Studies -Maher Arar and Abdullah Almalki
MaherAraris arguablythe most recognized victim ofthe extraordinaryrendition
program. Uponhis return to Canada in October 2003, Ararlaunched lawsuits against the
governments thatwere responsible forhis year incarcerationin Syria, which served to
furtherthrusthisname into thepublic's consciousness. However, Arar is among a group
ofCanadian-Muslim males who shared thehorrific experiences ofextraordinary
rendition. AbdullahAlmalki, AhmadAbou-Elmaati, and Muayyed Nureddin were also
held captive and tortured for extendedperiods in the "WaronTerror." This chapterwill
discuss Arar and Almalki's respective cases, the implications ofCanadian officials
involvement on citizenship protection rights, and Muslim settlement concerns.
MaherArar
MaherArarimmigrated to Canada in 1987 from Syria andreceived his Canadian
citizenship in 1991. He attended high school in Montreal and eventually obtained a
Bachelors degreein engineering from McGill University. Hewould later go onto obtain
a Masters degreeintelecommunications from the UniversityofQuebec. In December
1997, Arar andhis young familymoved from Montreal to Ottawa and in 1999, hebegan
working for ahightech firm called TheMathWorks in Boston, which involved
significant 73travel within the United States. In 2001, he decided to return to Ottawato
beginhis own telecommunications consulting company. (Testimony ofMaherArar,
October 17,2007).
Accordingto Arar's wife Dr. Monia Mazigh, business was slow forherhusband, as
the high-techbubble ofthe late 1990s had burst and the sectorwas suffering. In July
2002, Arar and his family went on vacation to Tunisiato visit Dr. Mazigh's relatives and
54
to evaluateArar's next businessplan. Arardecided to return to Ottawainlate September
to reignitehisbusiness (Mazigh, 2008); however, his return to Canadawas interrupted on
September26bythe United States Immigration andNaturalization Services (INS) who
arrested him atJFK International Airport inNew York (McCoy, 2008; Grey, 2004;
Mayer, 2005; Lobel, 2008).
Ararwas sent to the Metropolitan Detention Centre (MDC) in Brooklyn where he
was questioned at length about his association with a suspected terrorist and al Qaeda
member. Attheprison, they strip-searched him andplacedhim in solitary confinement
without anycontact with his familyorthe outside world (Lobel, 2008). Accordingto
Arar, "It washumiliating and against my religion to benaked in front ofothers. Theyput
me in an orange suit and took meto a doctorwhere theymademe sign forms and gave
me a shot. I asked what it was for and theywould not tell me. My arm was red for almost
two weeks" (Testimony ofMaherArar, October 18, 2007). Arar was held at theMDC for
nearlytwo weeks in which timehe endured long interrogations and was denied legal
counsel. Whenhe was granted counsel, it was done so in improper fashion. Arar's time in
the MDC wouldprove to be the first in a series ofhuman and legal rights abuses that he
would face overthe following year.
Ararwasrendered from the MDC on October 8 onboard a CIA registered
Gulfstreamjetto Jordan, and ultimatelyto Syria (Grey, 2006, pp. 62-63). Ararhad
repeatedly expressed his fear oftorture in Syria to INS authorities whilehewas detained
at the MDC (Human Rights Watch, 2005, p. 28). The State Department was equally
aware that Syrian torture methods included electrical shocks, pulling out fingernails, the
forced insertion ofobjects into therectum, and severebeatings (McCoy, pp. 173-174).
55
However a troublingrevelation showed that the INS had originallyagreed that Ararwas
entitled to protection fromtorture and that renderinghim to Syria would likelyresult in
his torture. It was assumed that he wouldbe sent to Canada for further questioning;
however, that decision was ultimately overridden (Lobel, 2008, pp. 483-484).
Arar arrived in Syria on October 9, 2002 where he was held in the Syrian Military
Intelligence (SMI) Palestine Branch, otherwiseknown as The Gravebyits prisoners. The
Gravereceived its namebecause the rat-infested cells were approximatelythe same size
as graves. He was routinelybeaten on his back, his buttocks, and his feet with shredded
two-inch-thick electronic cords (Grey2006, pp. 2-3; Arar Chronology, p. 5). Ararwas
eventually released from The Grave on August 19, 2003 and receivedhis full release
from SMI on October 5, 2003 (O'Connor, 2006, p. 467). However, it is important to ask
whyMaherArarbecame avictim ofthe extraordinaryrendition program. In orderto
answerthis question, onemust look to his association with fellow Syrian-Canadian
Abdullah Almalki.
Abdullah Almalki
Abdullah Almalki and MaherArar share identical migrationhistories. Almalki was bom
in Syria and immigratedto Canada in 1987 withhis family, whichwas the same yearthat
Arar arrived in Canada. Moreover, like Arar, Almalki enrolled in an engineeringprogram
at Carleton Universityand eventuallyreceivedhis Canadian citizenship in 1991
(Amnesty International, 2006). In 1992, Almalki travelled to Peshawar, Pakistan and
Afghanistan wherehe wasmoved bythe regions vast humanitarianneeds. In the summer
of1993, he returned to Pakistan to volunteerwith a Human Concern International (HCI)
project fundedbythe United Nations Development Program (Almalki biography).
56
Almalki was described as a "veryreligiousman, educated in theKoran, who was viewed
as an elderin the [Ottawa Muslim] community" (Pither, 2008, p. 56). However, his
volunteerwork in theMiddle East wouldultimatelyprove to be one ofthe primary
reasons forhis suspected terrorist activities prior to, and post-9/11.
In the 2008 Iacobucci Inquiry, which addressed the actions ofCanadian Officials in
Relation to AbdullahAlmalki, Ahmad Abou-Elmaati, and Muayyed Nureddin, Almalki
had become a person ofinterestprior to September 11, 2001. In the late 1990s,
presumablyrelated to his travels in Afghanistan and Pakistan, "CSIS shared information
about Mr. Almalki with the RCMP and various foreign intelligence and law enforcement
agencies, includingUS agencies and Malaysian agencies" (Iacobucci, 2008, p. 194).
Moreover,
Followingthe events ofSeptember 11, 2001, the RCMP received several
letters from CSIS and U.S. authorities advising it ofindividuals suspected of
Islamic extremism in Canada. Among these letters was a September 26, 2001
letter from CSIS that mentioned but did not name an individual believed tobe
an "al Qaedaprocurement officerin Canada," and a September 23, 2001 letter
from the FBI describing Mr. Almalki as the "Ottawa-basedprocurement
officer" for Osamabin Laden (Iacobucci, 2008, p. 194).
According to the 2006 O'Connor Inquiry, which similarly addressed the actions of
Canadian Officials inRelation to MaherArar, Abdullah Almalki was aprimarytarget of
the Ottawa RCMP and the focal point ofProject A-O Canada's lengthyinvestigation.
ProjectA-0 Canada was ajoint RCMP division investigation that was charged
with investigatingAbdullah Almalki. "In early October 2001, RCMP "O" Division asked
"A" Division forassistance in investigatingthe activities ofAbdullah Almalki, an Ottawa
resident who wasbelieved to be connected to al-Qaeda. In response, "A" Division
created ProjectA-0 Canada with threepriorities: prevention, intelligence and
57
prosecution" (O'Connor, 2006, pp. 16-17). Clearly, theintelligence communitythought
Almalki to be an exceptional person ofinterest, which explains the development of
Project A-0 Canada, as it was provided with information linking targeted individuals
with imminent threats to the security ofCanada (O'Connor, 2006, pp. 35-36).
Consequently, Muslim men such as Arar and Almalkibecame the subjects ofintense
surveillance forintelligence gathering initiatives to prevent furtherterrorist attacks.
However, theveracity ofthe intelligence gathered concerning Almalki was largely
questionable and had racial profiling concerns. Accordingto Almalki, "Clearly from the
way I was falsely labelledbythe RCMP before they even started theirinvestigation, and
before theyeven knew much, ifanything, about me, and the false information and
accusations that they sent to Syria and many other countries at that time, that strongly
suggests that itwas because ofracial profiling and incompetence" (Interview, August 10,
2009).
Nevertheless, Almalki did little to abate the suspicion surroundinghis alleged
terrorist connections. Whileunder surveillance in Ottawa, Almalki left the country on
November27, 2001 for Malaysia, under what Justice O'Connor (2006, p. 72) described
as "suspicious circumstances." Almalki's departure from Canada occurred without
Project A-0 Canada's knowledge until several days later, which arguablygave the
RCMP and CSIS the sense thathe was fleeing. Accordingly, on January21, 2002, search
warrants were granted forAlmalki's house, his brotherNazih Almalki's home, and
Ahmad El-Maati's residence. The searches were not expected to yieldmuch information,
but a significant amount was gathered. 26 computerhard drives, 40 videotapes, 100
compact discs and diskettes, 20,000 pages ofdocuments includingphotographs and
58
financial records, and 2 boxes ofshredded documents forreassembling. Some ofthe
computers, compact discs and diskettes werehidden eitherin walls orrafters (O'Connor,
2006, p. 73). Obviously, the dubious nature ofthe material left serious questions
surrounding Almalki andhis associates, butAlmalki's locationwas still amysteryto
CSIS and the RCMP at thebeginning of2002; however, they suspected he was in
Malaysia, his wife's home country.
On May 10 2002, CSIS and Project A-0 Canada learned thatAlmalki had left
Malaysia, and in late Maylearned thathe mayhave been detained in Syria, which was
laterconfirmed in themiddle ofJune (Iacobucci, 2008. p. 203). LikeArar, Almalki was
held in the SMI Palestine Branch in Syria from May 2002 to March 2004. Almalki also
endured the same horrifictorturingmethods administered by SMI officials. He described
his first interrogation at the SMI Palestine Branch wherebythe interrogator orderedhim
to take offhisjacket, shoes, and socks and to lie on the floor onhis stomach. His knees
werebent, with his feetinthe air. Two orthreemen whipped the soles ofhis feet with
frayed cables while othermen kicked him repeatedly (Pither, 2008, p. 117). Almalki also
frequently endured the severetorture method known as the Tire, which Ararhad been
threatened with (ArarChronology, p. 5).
"He [Almalki] was taken from his cell to an interrogationroom, blindfolded,
and told to strip down to his underwear. Theybrought a tireto him and told
him how to get into it. He sat in thetirewith his back on the floor, and the
back ofhis neck against the inside ofthe tire. His arms were around the tire.
They raised his legsup so his weightwas on his back andhewas completely
restrained. Theystarted beatinghim onthe soles ofhis feet, head and body,
and also struckhim on his genitals" (Copeland, n.d., p. 14).
Almalki suffered longinterrogations fortwenty-two months, while Canadian officials
largelyremained idle intheir attempts to ensurehis release. This leads to serious
59
questions about citizenship protectionin aheightened age ofnational security.
The suspicion surrounding Almalki was predicated onvarious intelligencereports,
but what were the charges that warranted MaherArar's alleged terrorist activities, and his
subsequentrendition? According to Justice O'Connor (2006, p. 51), "Mr. Arardid not
come to the attention ofProject A-0 Canada until an October 12, 2001 meetingbetween
Mr. Almalki and Mr. Arar at Mango's Cafe in Ottawa." Consequently, Ararbecame a
person ofinterest and his biographical information was collected by Project A-0 Canada.
In November2001, Project A-O Canada discovered that in 1997, Ararhad used Almalki
as an emergencycontact on an Ottawa apartment contract, which became known as the
Minto Lease. This document along with information about the Mango's Cafemeeting
was given to theFBI with no written caveats attached (O'Connor, 2006, p. 55). This
conceivably led to Arar's arrest at JFK International Airport on September 26, 2002. The
alleged terrorist and al Qaeda memberthat was the focus ofArar's intense interrogation
at the MDC wasAbdullah Almalki. Theveracity ofAlmalki's terrorist connections was
purely speculative, but forAmerican intelligence officers, Ararwas guilty-by-association.
Once more, thisperception canbe interpreted as an extension ofthe "us" versus "them"
mentalitythatis imbedded in Orientalism.
The omissionofanywritten caveats by the RCMP withregards to theMinto Lease
and other intelligence reports given to American agencies has been the matterof
significant debate. However, it is important to note that RCMP policyrequires that
decisions to exchange intelligencebemade on a case-by-casebasis, and thatjudgement
be applied to determine whether sharingwould violate anyone's rights, or otherwisebe
inappropriate (O'Connor, 2006, p. 33). However, oncemore 9/11 acted as a cathartic
60
v
event that called for several policy changes with littletime forbureaucratic discussions.
According to RCMP witnesses, members oftheRCMP and its domestic and
foreign agencies met atRCMP Headquarters on either September 12 or 13,
2001 to discuss thethreat ofanother attack, and the need forincreased
cooperation and coordination among the agencies, including the need to share
relevant information in atimelymanner. Thesediscussions were thestarting
point forinformation-sharing arrangements thatultimatelyresulted inProject
A-0 CanadaprovidingAmerican agencies with information about anumber
ofindividuals, includingMr. Arar. Some ofthis information likelyplayed a
rolein the American decision to transferMr. Arar to Syria (O'Connor, p. 37).
In addition, Justice O'Connor found that ProjectA-O CanadaprovidedAmerican
authorities with significant information about Araron different occasions priorto
September26, 2002 despite the assessment that Ararwas no more than aperson of
interest. The information passedto American agencies included a numberofmisleading
or false statements that were damaging such as the description that Ararwas amemberof
a group ofIslamic extremist group with suspected links to al Qaeda. Moreover, there
were several references to Ararbeing a suspect, principal subject, and target or important
figure intheRCMP's investigation ofAbdullah Almalki (O'Connor, 2006, p. 113).
Justice O'Connor (2006, p. 157) concluded that theAmerican decision to renderArar to
'Syriawas largelybased on false information providedby the RCMP, which did not
includewritten caveats. In the "war on terror" dueprocesses and legal considerations
were eroded. Canadian officials sharing ofsensitive and inaccurate information on
Canadian citizens with foreign agencies clearlyled to MaherArar's rendition to Syria.
Moreover, Both Maher Arar and Abdullah Almalki'srenditions to Syriaproved that the
litigiousramifications of9/11 would affect human and citizenship protectionrights
beyond recognition.
Furthermore, Justice Iacobucci's inquiryinto Abdullah Almalki's 22-month
61
detention in Syriahas yielded similar conclusions. However, it is first important to note
that Almalki's circumstances are not entirely congruent with thedefinition of
extraordinaryrendition thatwas outlined intheliterature review. Almalki traveled to
Syria on his own accord to visit his ill grandmother in March 2002 at which pointhewas
detained bythe SMI. Nevertheless, the samemachinations that fueled the extraordinary
rendition ofMaherArar are inherent in Almalki's case, whichhasbeen called
"opportunistic rendition" (Interview, August 10, 2009).
It is called "opportunistic rendition"because Almalki was conveniently detained by
the SMI in Damascus. "It was clear that theRCMP provided false information that was
sent directlyto Syriathat set up his detention and torture there, and he was interrogated
andtortured on questions that were sent to the Syrians bythe RCMP and information that
was exchanged directlyby CSIS with the Syrians (Interview, August 10). Oncemore,
Justice Iacobucci found that Canadian officialsplayed a significant role in the capture of
a Canadian citizen. In April 2002, ProjectA-0 Canada provided U.S. agencies with three
CDs containing theRCMP's Supertext database without written caveats. The database
contained a considerable amount ofmaterialrelating to Almalki, including documents
thathad been seized duringthe January22, 2002 search ofhis residence and other
documents related to Project A-O Canada's investigation (Iacobucci, 2008, p. 403).
Once more, the sensitive informationofa Canadian official was released to a
foreign agencywithout written caveats, whichrenders the information susceptible to
interpretation. Accordingto Justice Iacobucci (2008, p. 409):
The fact thatthe database was provided without caveats, and the fact that the
U.S. had its own investigative interest in Mr. Almalki priorto the events
underreview, Ibelieve it is reasonableto infer that the documents provided in
the Supertext database, or information from those documents, made their way
62
into thehands ofSyrian officials, and were then usedbythem, togetherwith
other information, to interrogate Mr. Almalki in Syria. On this basis, I
concludethat the actions ofCanadian officials in sharingthe Supertext
database likelycontributed to, and thereforeresulted indirectlyin,
mistreatment ofMr. Almalki in Syria.
This has been a contentious issue surroundingboth Arar's and Almalki's cases, as it is
clear that inboth instances Canadian officials haveplayed a significant role in their
captures, andultimatelytheirtortures.
In addition, Canadian official's involvement with Arar and Almalki's renditions
have breachedparts ofthe Canadian Charter ofRights and Freedoms. Part 1 Fundamental
Freedoms states that everyone has freedom ofconscience andreligion and freedom of
association (Charter, 1982). One can argue that both Ararand Almalki became "persons
ofinterest" dueto their Syrian heritage and Islamic faith. Justice O'Connor statedthat
Arar did notbecome a "person ofinterest" until he met Almalki at Mango's Cafe on
October 12, 2002. Thebiographical datarelating to Arar afterthismeeting was given to
American agencies with no written caveats; therefore, Ararwas renderedbased onhis
association withAlmalki withoutproper evidence. This clearlybreaks the freedom of
association in theCharter. In addition, underthe Legal Rights section, everyonehas a
right not to be subjected to any cruel andunusual treatment ofpunishment (Charter,
1982). DespiteArar and Almalki's confinements and torture in Syria, Canadian officials
involvement led to their cruel and unusual treatment ofpunishment. Once more, itis
important to distinguish Arar and Almalki as exceptional cases that maynot necessarily
be representativeofthe largermindsets and ideologies ofCanadian intelligence and
enforcement agencies.
It is also important to considerthe international laws and conventions that Arar and
63
Almalki'srenditions have circumvented. Accordingto the UnitedNations' Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or DegradingTreatment or Punishment (CAT),
Torturemeans any actbywhich severepain orsuffering, whetherphysical or
mental, is intentionallyinflicted on aperson forsuchpurposes as obtaining
fromhim or a third personinformation or a confession, punishinghim for an
acthe or a third personhas committed oris suspected ofhaving committed, or
intimidating or coercinghim or a third person, or for anyreasonbased on
discrimination ofanykind, when such pain orsuffering is inflicted byor at
the instigation oforwith the consent or acquiescence ofapublic official or
otherperson acting in an official capacity.
Moreover, Article 3 states, "No State Party shall expel, return ("refouler") or extradite a
personto another State wherethere are substantial grounds forbelievingthathe wouldbe
in dangerofbeing subjected to torture" (CAT, 1984).
Uponhis capture in May2002, Almalki claims that, "I knew that torture was
internationallyprohibited, but I did notknow anyspecific laws or conventions.
However, from what I saw in Syria, what I was told, and what I heard from other
detainees, itwas clear that Syria was used as aproxyforinterrogation, torture and illegal
imprisonment (Interview, August 10, 2009). Therefore, it is abundantly clearbased on
CAT's definition oftorture and Article 3 that state officials knew thatboth Arar and
Almalki wouldbe tortured in Syria, which has violatedtheirhuman rights in conjunction
withbreaching a significant international convention. Both the United States and Canada
have signed CAT, thus onemustbegin to questiontheirrespectivehuman rights records.
Consequently, it is important to evaluate Ararand Almalki's renditions from an
immigration and settlementperspective. On the surface,both MaherArar and Abdullah
Almalki appeared to be the definition ofideal immigrants who had successfully
integrated into Canadian society. Theywere fluent in one ofthe official languages, they
were educated atprestigious Canadian institutions, theywere successful and respected
64
telecommunications engineers and entrepreneurs, and theywereregarded as leaders in
the Ottawa Muslim community. However, bothArar and Almalki are shadows oftheir
former selves aftertheirhorrific experiences. Canada, which is oftenheralded as a
humanitarian state that extols the virtues ofaprogressive immigrationpolicypredicated
onmulticulturalism and social inclusion, has in effect reduced the functioning capacityof
two immigrants and theirrespective families.
Both Arar andAlmalki have addressed the effects oftheirphysical and mental
trauma on their everyday lives since theirreturn to Canada. Forinstance, Kerry Pither
(2008, p. 386) quotes Dr. George Fraser ofthe Ottawa Trauma and Anxiety Clinic who
describes Almalki as, "suffering from majordepression and post-traumatic stress
disorder... [His] coping strategy ofblocking out emotional feelings and emotions in order
to cope with his isolationhas made reconnecting with his family and friends difficult." In
addition, Almalki "has been seeking professional medical and psychological help for
ailments resulting from the torture he was subjected to in Syria. Abdullah's doctorhas
toldhim that hisjaw is displaced, and he is also being treated for chronic pain inhis
shoulder, hip and foot (Almalki Biography, n.d.). These aforementioned ailments have
reducedhis abilityto work and provide forhis family. He laments, "Engineering and
business arepart ofme. I loved my companybecause I was ableto combine both. Now
notbeing able to do either, part ofme is gone, and I constantly feel its absence" (Pither,
2008, p. 388). Moreover, Almalki states thathis extraordinaryrendition "destroyed my
life and affected terriblymy family, includingmy children" (Interview, August 10, 2009).
MaherArarhas been similarly affectedbyhis experiences in Syria. According to
his wife Dr. Mazigh, "Forhim work was out ofthe question: his mental and physical
65
health were fragile, he needed to rest- andbesides, who was likelyto hire someone
suspected ofterrorism, who was written about almost dailyin thepress?" (Mazigh, 2008,
p. 223). InArar's testimonyto theUnited States House ofRepresentatives Joint
Oversight Hearing (October 18, 2007, p. 12) he stated through a satellite feedbecausehe
is still on a no-flight list in the United States:
"Since myreturn to Canada, Ihavelived in constantpsychological pain. This
painmanifests in various forms. I feel emotionallydistant from my family,
includingmywife and children. I am still fragile. I have lost confidence in
myselfand am easilyoverwhelmed. I have lost the abilityto multi-task,
which is essential formy engineeringprofession. I canno longer concentrate
formore than a short time. I havenightmares and recurring flashbacks, and
constantly fear flying and beingkidnapped again. Mybody is slowlyhealing,
but the cognitive and psychological scars are still withme.
Arar and Almalki's experiences in Syria and the role ofCanadian officials had limited
their abilityto function in Canadian society. However, it is important to considerthe
impact oftheirrenditions on the greater Canadian-Muslim community and the
implications inregards to settlement experiences and immigration trends to Canada.
The moveto national securityinthe wake ofthe 9/11 attacks has served to further
marginalize Muslims in Canada. According to Almalki, "Had I led the life I did, had the
business Ihad, andthe social life I had, but were not a Muslim, would I had faced what I
faced? I do notthink so. So clearlyI am being discriminated againstbecause I am a
Muslim" (Interview, August 10, 2009). Both Arar and Almalki are exceptional victims of
programs that are Islamophobic in nature, which in conjunction with the irresponsible
reportage claimingthat they were terrorists without tangibleproofhas left bothmen on
the fringes ofsociety where fewpeoplewill interact withthem. It is abundantlyclearthat
Canadian institutions need to navigatethepost-9/11 climatewith increased caution, as
their campaigns against Muslim-Canadians have shown tohave distinct ramifications.
66
TheArar and Almalki cases had led to concerns over citizenshipprotection for
manyMuslim-Canadians. Almalki, who was considered an elderin the Ottawa-Muslim
communitywas held againsthis will in inhumane conditions in Syria fortwo years. The
Canadian government did littleto ensure his release despite his dual citizenship.
Accordingto Almalki,
I had avery strong feeling from the experienceI had in Canadabefore
travelling abroad and inMalaysia and from what I was asked from the
beginning in Syriathat Canada was behindmyinterrogation and torture. But
initially I thought that the Canadian External Affairs would work from my
release. But as timepassed and I did not receive any consularvisits, and as
more and more information and questions came from Canada, myhope that the
Canadian governmentwould ensure myrelease disappeared (Interview, August
10,2009).
Therefore, one can inferthat the greater Muslim-Canadian communitymayhave felt
that theywere the subjects ofincreased racial profiling, which could conceivably
lead to experiences reminiscentofAlmalki andArar's.
In2004, lawyer Colonel Me. Michel W. Drapeau wrote to Justice Dennis O'Connor
onbehalfofthe Muslim Community Council ofOttawa-Gatineau (MCCO-G) to
illuminatethe Muslim community's concerns aftertherelease ofArar and Almalki. The
MCCO-G surveyed anumberofits constituents who were afraid ofCanadian law
enforcement agencies' aggressive tactics. Anonymous testimonies such as "Just being a
Muslim you could nowbecome a terrorist suspect" and "I feel uneasyinpublicbecause I
look likeaMuslim" illustratedtheir growing fears and apprehensions (MCCO-G, 2004,
pp. 35-36). A total of404 survey forms were received and completed. 82 % of
respondents felt they did nothave the same freedoms, rights and privileges as other
Canadians. 75 % ofrespondents felt that they could easilybecome suspect orlabeled as a
terroristbythe RCMP, CSIS orpolice. Finally, 81 % ofrespondents felt more targeted
67
now because, as aMuslim person theymaylook or act differently (MCCO-G, 2004, pp.
43-44). This surveyhas significant ramifications on themulticultural social fabricthat
Canada is often heralded for. Moreover, one can infer from theMCCO-G's constituents'
sentiments that their settlements experiences in Canadahavebeen affected bytheir
apprehension, whichreduced their abilityto successfully integrate into Canadian society.
One can argue that theMCCO-G's respondents' perceptions, in conjunction withArar
and Almalki's renditions, mayprevent Muslim from migratingto Canada.
However, theMCCO-G believed that the Muslim community's responses were
derived by sensational media reports. Citing an article written in Islamic Horizonsby
professor Mohammed Elmasry (MCCO-G, 2004, p. 56) "Apopular and largelymedia-
created beliefthat Islam condones and encourages violence has led to significant societal
anxiety among Canadian Muslims. This situation exists mainlybecause the Canadian
media are creating an imaginarynational crisisbased on an inaccurate understandingof
Islam." Scholars Barbara Perry and ScottPoynting (2006, p. 5) suggest,
The media are especially complicitin the dissemination ofanti-Muslim
imagery. The widespread perpetuation ofsuch caricatures—bythe media and
bypublic figures—fuels sentiments ofsuspicion andmistrustbyunfavorably
shapingpublicperceptions. There are few, ifany, positivemedia images of
Arabs, Muslims, or Middle Easterners generally.
In addition, Muslim-Canadians feel thatmore accountability and transparencymustbe
place on mediaproduction and audienceconsumption. In a survey conducted by Caidi
and MacDonald, theyfound that their Muslim respondents consistentlypointed to the
perceived bias ofthemedia, particularlytelevision and print sources, and the need for
media literacy and critical skills. Respondents were quoted as saying, "Media is
responsible for falseinformation" and "Stories about Muslims are in negative light"
68
(2008, p. 367). This can also be applied to the inaccurate and negative reporting on Arar
and Almalki. According to Abdullah Almalki, "Even though [theprint media] is more
balanced now, butbefore themediawas willing to print and air government leaks offalse
and unproveninformation and allegations that was verydamagingto myselfand many
other Muslim Canadians" (Interview, August 10, 2009).
The media's portrayal ofMuslims in negative fashion, with thehighlypublic
stories ofmen like MaherArarwith headlines suggestinghe is a "suspected terrorist"
arguablyleads to hate crimes directed at Muslims. A surveyofMuslims-Canadians in
2002 by CAIR-CAN found that 56% ofrespondents had experienced at least one anti-
Muslim incident in the twelve months since 9/11. The samepercentage found increased
mediabias against Muslims and Islam. Some 33% had experienced verbal abuse; 18%
had experienced racial profiling and 16% had experienced workplace discrimination
(Caidi and MacDonald, 2008, pp. 3-4). Once more, it is apparent that themedia, along
with Canadian security agencies, have had adverse effects ofCanadian-Muslims post-
9/11, thusjeopardizing their abilityto achieve social inclusion in Canadian society.
Abdullah Almalki addressed his feelings ofbeing aMuslim in Canadapost-9/11.
69
Conclusion
The September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States have acted as a catalyst that have
forced Western liberal democracies to adopt and implement regressivepolicies and
programs that target certain ethno-religious groups. The extraordinaryrendition program
was therefore devised and sanctioned bythe United States government with the sole
purpose ofpreventing another September 11. However, the United States is not alone in
advancingthe program. Canada, Australia, and Great Britain haveparticipated in
rendering individuals to the CIA's global web ofsecret prisons. MaherArar and
AbdullahAlmalki are two Canadian-Muslims that have witnessed their citizenship and
humanrights eroded in the "war on terror," whichhas repeatedly circumvented
international and domestic laws through its inhumanepractices. Moreover, extraordinary
renditions are clear and distinct extensions ofIslamophobia, a form ofanti-Muslim
racism, which is particularly evident with the staggering number ofMuslims and Arabs
thathave emerged as the victims oftheprogram. On the surface it appears that theracism
inherentlyinvolved in theprogram is based onreligious beliefs ratherthan traditional
racism, which is predicatedonphenotypical characteristics.
However, extraordinaryrenditions also possess the overt characteristics ofEdward
Said's theoryofOrientalismwherebyEurocentric ideologies havepermeated the Islamic
world and created Muslims and Arabs as the "other." The West's Orientalist thought
patternshave thusjustified the extraordinaryprogram as a necessaryinitiative to purge an
"inferior", "uncivilized", and "hostile" region ofits "barbaric" people. Western
institutions such as immigration departments, bordercontrol and intelligence agencies,
and themediahave furthered the Eurocentric notion ofsuperioritybydefining Muslims
70
and Arabs as uncivilized and hostile fundamentalists seekingto destroythe West. Yet,
the critical analyses forwarded bythese aforementioned institutions is rarelyreversed
thereby questioningtheirmorality in their actions towards the Islamic world.
The divisive ethos of"us" versus "them" that Said discusses is reflected inthe
institutional nature ofcultural dominancethat the print mediaprojects on society. "The
ownership and management ofmedia enterprises, and the growing coalescence and
centralization ofownership by conservativeidealogues, such as Conrad Black, leads to a
homogenized portrayal ofMuslims in themedia, one which conservative ideologies are
supported" (Henry, 1999, p. 26). Thoughviolently denied, racism has reached the top,
both in politics and themedia. Orrather, as the history ofracism shows, it has always
been at the top, and inthis respect continuityprevails (van Dijk, 1995b, p. 29). Moreover,
thepublic is compromised by the capitalist imperatives that fuelprofit driven enterprises
like newspapers andmagazines. It is essential that the publicbecomes critical in its
dissemination ofprintmedia and questions the veracity ofthereportage. This is
especiallypertinent in respects to visibleminority groups' representation in the media, as
theymaybecome increasinglymarginalized and face greaterdifficulties successfully
integrating into Canadian society.
In addition, theUnited States', and its allies "war on terror" has only served to
increase terror in theirrespective states and abroad, and furthermarginalize Muslims in
theirrespective countries. According to RegWhitaker (2008, p.10).
The difficulties encountered byMuslim and Arab minorities post-9/11 as they
find themselves deemed "suspect communities" in the eyes ofthe North
American and European majorities will requiremorethan onepublic inquiry
to resolve, especiallyin light ofthe emergence of"homegrown" extremism
and terrorist outragesplanned and in some cases perpetrated against fellow
citizens by youngradicalized Muslims born and raised inthe West
71
Therole ofCanadian officials in therenditions ofMaherArar andAbdullah
Almalki has had significant ramifications on theirphysical wellbeing and mental health.
Bothmenhave launched socialjustice campaigns to alert the Canadianpublic ofthe
government's role in their captures. According to Almalki, "Like many other Canadians,
thepicture I had ofCanada as a country that was against torture and a champion of
human rightshas severelybeen shaken. But as Canadians, the people ofthis county, we
have aresponsibility to correct this" (Interview, August 10, 2009). Barbara Olshansky,
the assistant legal director ofthe Center for Constitutional Rights, which represents
MaherArarin his legal case against the United States, said that her view ofAmerica had
changed since the extraordinaryrendition program was revealed in 2005. "I have not
changedmyopinion about its people, but unfortunately I have changedmy opinion about
its respect forhuman rights. It is no longer the leader in the world. It has become the
leaderin theviolation ofhumanrights" (Mayer, 2005).
72
T
Bibliography
Almalki, A. (10 August, 2009). Interview. Toronto, Canada.
Amiel, B. (2001, December 18). The Jews arenot the problem. National Post.
Annan, K. (2004, July 12). Seminar on Confronting Islamophobia. Retrieved May20,
2009, from http://www.un.org/News/Press/docs/2004/sgsm9637.doc.htm.
Anonymous, (n.d.). AbdullahAlmalki biography. Retrieved July9, 2009 from
http://www.abdullahalmalki.ca/bio.htm.
Anonymous, (n.d.). MaherArar: Chronologyofevents. September 26, 2002 to October 5,
2003. Retrieved July 8, 2009 from http://www.maherarar.ca/mahers%20story.php.
Anonymous. (2001, December27). Our terrorismisblessed. National Post.
Arar, M. (2007, October 18). Testimony afterMaherArarJoint Oversight Hearing:
Rendition ofTorture: The Case ofMaherArar, Committee ofForeign Affairs
Subcommittee on International Organizations, Human Rights and Oversight with
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties -United States House ofRepresentatives. Retrieved from,
www.foreignaffairs.house.gov/110/aral018O7.pdf.
Allmand, W. & Barrette, D. (2004). Opening submission ofthe International Civil
Liberties Monitoring Group to the Commission ofInquiryinto the Actions of
Canadian Officials inRelation to MaherArar. Retrieved July 8,2009 from,
http://www.maherarar.ca/documentation.php.
Amnesty International. "Rendition" and secret detention: A Global system ofhuman
rights violations. Retrieved June 21, 2009, from
http://www.amnesty.org/en/library/asset/POL30/003/2006/en/dom-
POL300032006en.html.
Bell, S. (2001, September 13). A conduit forterrorists. National Post.
Bell, S. (2002a, October 22). Canadian detainedbyU.S. turns up in Syria: Accused ofal-
Qaeda link: Ottawaprotested man's deportation to uncertain fate. National Post.
Bell, S. (2002b, October23). Syrians detain Canadian deported from U.S.: Americans
suspect Ottawamanhas al-Qaeda links. National Post.
Caidi,N. & MacDonald, S. (2008). Informationpractices ofCanadian Muslims post-
9/11. Government Information Quarterly25, 348-378).
73
Canadian CharterofRights and Freedoms. (1982). Constitution act. RetrievedAugust 2,
2009 fromhttp://laws.justice.gc.ca/en/charter.
Cheney, P. (2002, October 12). Canadian's deportation causes furor. Globe & Mail.
Commission ofInquiry into theActions ofCanadian Officials in Relationto MaherArar
(2006). Report ofthe events relating to MaherArar: Factual Background. Volume
I. Ottawa, ON: Ministry ofPublic Works and Government Services.
Commission ofInquiryinto the Actions ofCanadian Officials in Relation to MaherArar
(2006). Report ofthe events relating to MaherArar: Factual Background. Volume
II. Ottawa, ON: Ministry ofPublic Works and Government Services.
Commission ofInquiry into theActions ofCanadian Officials in Relationto MaherArar
(2006). Report ofthe events relating to MaherArar: Analysis and
recommendations. Ottawa, ON: Ministry ofPublic Works and Government
Services.
Copeland, P. (n.d.) Abdullah Almalki: Chronology. Retrieved July 12, 2009 from:
http://www.abdullahalmalki.ca/story.htm
Coyne, A. (2001, September 16). Whatifit happened here? National Post.
Dershowitz, A. (2002). Why Terrorism Works. New Haven, Connecticut, Yale
UniversityPress.
Dimento, J.F.C. & Geis, G. (2006). The extraordinary condition ofextraordinary
rendition: The CIA, the DEA, kidnapping, torture, and the law. War Crimes,
Genocide & Crimes against Humanity, vol. 2, 35-64.
Dobrowolsky, A.; Rollings-Magnusson, S. & Doucet, M.G. (2009). Security, insecurity,
andhumanrights. Contextualizingpost-9/11. In S. Rollings-Magnusson (Ed.),
Anti-terrorism: Security and insecurity after 9/11 (pp. 13-31). Black Point, NS:
FernwoodPublishing.
Drapeau, Me. Col. M.W. (2004). Opening submissionbythe Muslim Community
Council Ottawa-Gatineau to the Commission ofInquiryinto the Actions of
Canadian Officials in relation to MaherArar. Retrieved July 8, 2009, from,
http://www.maherarar.ca/documentation.php.
Editorial. (2001, September 12). Let loose the global war on terrorism. Globe and Mail.
Elia, N. (2006). Islamophobia and the "privileging" ofArab American women. NWSA
Journal, 18(3), 155-161.
74
Elmasry, M. (2001, September 14). Neighbours as collateral damage: terrorism's
aftershock are destabilizing society, as Muslim Canadians are targeted for
stereotyping and abuse. Globe & Mail.
Fekete, L. (2004). Anti-Muslim racism and the European security state. Race and Class,
46(1), 3-29.
Fischer, L. (2008). Extraordinaryrendition: Theprice ofsecrecy. American University
Law Review, 57, 1405-1451.
Gadd, J. (2001, September 12). Dayofinfamy: Canadianreaction: Muslims fear
backlash; Jewish group issues alert. Globe & Mail.
Gardner, R.; Karakaolus, Y. & Luchtenberg, S. (2008). Islamophobia in themedia: a
response from multicultural education. Intercultural Education 19(2), 119-136.
Gearty, C. (2006). Can humanrights survive? Cambridge, UK: CambridgeUniversity
Press.
Gee, M. (2001, September 25). War on terror: anunstable region: how do extremists use
hatred as a weapon? Globe & Mail.
Gottschalk, P. & Greenberg, G. (April 2008). Islamophobia: Making Muslims the
Enemy. Journal ofMuslim MinorityAffairs, 28(1), 163-164.
Goldstone, R. (2006). Combatingterrorism: Zero tolerance fortorture. Case Western
Reserve Journal ofInternational Law, 37(2/3), 343-348.
Grey, S. (2004, May 17) America's Gulag. Newstatesman, 22-25
Grey, S. (2006). Ghost plane: Thetrue story ofthe CIA tortureprogram. New York, NY:
St. Martin's Press.
Gurdon, H. (2001, December24). What links Dec. 25 to Sept. 11: Ourcivilization,
planted in Christian soil, is theworld's dominant force. National Post.
Halliday, F. (1999). IslamophobiaReconsidered. Ethnic and Racial Studies, 22(5), 892-
902.
Hanson, J. (2009). The Bush Frame: Us versus them; good versus evil; intentions versus
consequences. Retrieved July 17, 2009, from The Situationist,
http://thesituationist.wordpress.com/2009/01/16/the-bush-frame-us-vs-them-good-
vs-evil-intentions-vs-consequences/
Helly, D. (2004). Are Muslims discriminated against in Canada since September 2001?
Canadian Ethnic Studies, 36(1), 24-47.
75
Henry, F. (1999). Theracialization ofcrime inToronto's print media: A research project.
Toronto, On: Ryerson Polytechnic University, School ofJournalism.
Henry, F., & Tator, C. (2002). Discourse ofdomination: Racial bias inthe Canadian
English-languagepress. Toronto ON: University ofToronto Press.
Hersh, S. M. (2004, May 10). Torture at Abu Ghraib: American soldiers brutalized Iraqis.
How farup does theresponsibility go? New Yorker, Retrieved February 19, 2009,
from http://www.newyorker.eom/archive/2004/05/l0/04051Ofa_fact.
Holt, T. (2000). The Problem ofRace in the 21st Century. England: Harvard University
Press: 23-46.
Honey, K. (2002, October 14). Concern grows for deported Canadian. Globe & Mail.
Human Rights Watch (2005). Human Rights Watch Report to the Canadian Commission
on Inquiryinto Actions ofCanadian Officials in Relation to MaherArar.
Retrieved July 14, 2009 from, http://www.maherarar.ca/index.php.
Huntington, S. (1996). The clash ofcivilizations and theremaking ofworld order.
Toronto, ON: Simon and Schuster.
Internal Inquiry into the Actions ofCanadian Officials in Relation to Abdullah Almalki,
Ahmad Abou-Elmaati and MuayyedNureddin. (2008). Ottawa, ON: Ministryof
Public Works and Government Services.
Ismael, T.Y., & Measor, J. (2003). Racism and theNorth American Media Following 11
September: The Canadian Setting. Arab Studies Quarterly, 25(2), 101-136.
Jonas, G. (2001b, November27). Few securityrules: First define 'terrorism.' National
Post.
Jonas, G. (2001a, October 15). Muslim mushrooms, terrorist toadstools—Fifth columnist
ushers binladen within ourperimeter. National Post.
Kay, J. (2001, October 18). A healthydose of'bigotry.' National Post.
Khan, S. (2002, September 12). Sept. 11: Canada's Muslims: don't shackle us to
9/11: Canadian Muslims, horrified that last year's crime was carried out in the
name ofIslam, have a special dutyto challenge intolerancehead on. Globe &
Mail.
Kruger, E., Mulder, M. & Korenic, B. (2004). Canada After 11 September; Security
Measures and "Preferred" Immigrants. Mediterranen Quarterly, 15(4), 72-87.
76
Lewington, J. and I. Peritz. (2001, September 15). Aftermath: day ofmourning: Canadian
Muslimwon't go out alone: Islamic spokesmen appeal for tolerance; some
questionedbyRCMP officers. Globe & Mail.
Lewis, B. (2003). The crisis ofIslam: Holywar and unholyterror. New York, NY:
Modern Library.
Lobel, J. (2008). Extraordinaryrendition and the Constitution: The case ofMaherArar.
The Review ofLitigation, 28(2), 479-500.
Lockman, Z. (2004). Contendingvisions ofthe Middle East: The history and politics of
Orientalism. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge UniversityPress.
Ljunggren, D. (2003) Chretien: Canadanot willing. Retrieved July 2, 2009, from Global
PolicyForum,
http://www.globalpolicy.org/component/content/article/167/35213.html.
Mahtani, M. (2001). Representingminorities: Canadianmedia and minorityidentities.
Canadian Ethnic Studies, 33(3), 99-133.
Makin, K. (2001, December 18). War on terror: appeals court upholds conviction
for spreadinghate. Globe & Mail.
Mamdani, M. (2004). Good Muslim, bad Muslim: America, the Cold War, andthe roots
ofterror. New York, NY: Three Leaves Press.
Mayer, J. (2005, February 14). Outsourcing Torture: The secret historyofAmerica's
"extraordinaryrendition" program, New Yorker.
Mazigh, M. (2008). Hope and despair: My struggles to freemyhusband, MaherArar.
Toronto, ON: McClelland & Stewart Ltd.
McCoy, A.W. (2006). A question oftorture: CIA interrogation, from the Cold War to the
War on Terror. New York, NY: Metropolitan Books.
McGhee, D. (2008). The end ofMulticulturalism? Terrorism, integration andhuman
rights. London, UK: Open UniversityPress.
McKenna, B. (2001, December 15). Muslims divided overtape: Saudi Arabia, Egypt
accept authenticityofbin Ladenbut many still sceptical. Globe & Mail.
Mitchell, A. (2001, September21). Brink ofwar: the racial fallout: tide ofhate crimes
rising in Canada. Globe & Mail.
77
Muscati, S. A. (2002). Arab/Muslim 'Otherness': The role ofracial constructions in the
GulfWar andthe continuing crisiswith Iraq. Journal ofMuslim MinorityAffairs,
22(1), 131-148.
Omi, M. & Winant, H. (1994). Racial formation in the United States: from the 1960s to
the 1980s. New York, NY: Routledge.
Perry, B. & Poynting, S. (2006). Inspiring Islamophobia: Media and state targetingof
Muslims in Canada since 9/11. Working Paper, TASA Conference 2006,
UniversityofWestern Australia & Murdoch University.
Pither, K. (2008). Dark Days: The storyoffour Canadians tortured in the name of
fighting terror. Toronto, ON: Viking Canada
Priest, D. (2005, November 2). CIA Holds Terror Suspects in Secret Prisons, Washington
Post, p. AOL
Rapley, R. (2007). Witch Hunts: From Salem to Guantanamo Bay. Kingston, Ontario,
Canada: McGill Queen's UniversityPress.
Razack, S. H. (2008). Casting Out: The eviction ofMuslims from Western law and
politics. Toronto, ON: Toronto University Press.
Razack, S. H. (2004). Imperilled Muslim women, dangerous Muslim men and civilised
Europeans: Legal and social responses to forced marriages. Feminist Legal
Studies, 12, 129-174.
Roach, K. (2003). September 11: Consequences for Canada. Montreal, Quebec, Canada:
McGill Queen's UniversityPress.
Rollings-Magnusson, S. (2009). Security, human rights, and socialjustice: Where do we
go from here? In S. Rollings-Magnusson (Ed.), Anti-terrorism: Security and
insecurity after 9/11 (pp. 13-31). Black Point, NS: Fernwood Publishing.
Rubenstein, H. (2002, September 16). Root causes ofterrorism. National Post.
Sadat, L.N. (2006). Ghostprisoners andblack sites: Extraordinaryrendition under
international law. Case Western Reserve Journal ofInternational Law, 37(2/3),
309-342.
Said, E. W. (1981). Covering Islam: How the media and the experts determinehow we
see the rest ofthe world. New York, NY: Pantheon Books.
Said, E. W. (2007). Latent and manifest Orientalism. In T. Das Gupta, C.E. James,
R.C.A. Maaka, G.E. Galabuzi and C. Andersen (Eds.), Race and racialization:
Essential readings (pp. 45-55). Toronto, ON: Canadian Scholars' Press Inc.
78
Said, E. W. (1978). Orientalism: Western conceptions ofthe Orient. New York, NY:
Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd.
Sanjek, R. (1994). The Enduring Inequalities ofRace. In S. Gregory, S & R. Sanjek
(Eds.), Race (pp. 1-18). New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press.
Salloum, H. (2002). The terrorist crisis: Theview from Canada. Contemporary Review,
280(1634), 146-151.
Saunders, D. (2007, February 24). A World ofMaherArars. The Globe and Mail.
Shahid, F. (2002, September28). Embrace Peace, National Post.
Sheridan, L.P. (2006). Islamophobia Pre-and Post-September 11th, 2001. Journal of
Interpersonal Violence 21(3), 317-336.
Sivanandan, A. (2006). Freedom ofspeech is not an absolute. Race and Class, 48(1), 75-
92.
Smith, H., & Ley, D. (2008) Even in Canada? The multiscalar construction and
experience ofconcentrated immigrantpoverty in gateway cities. Annals ofthe
Association ofAmerican Geographers, 98(3), 686-713.
Teelucksingh, C. (2009, January20). Racial Discourse, course lecture. Ryerson
University, Toronto, ON.
Thobani, S. (2003). War and the politics oftruth-making in Canada. International Journal
ofQualitative Studies in Education,16(3),399-414.
Thobani. S. (October 1, 2001). "Women's Resistance: From Victimization to
Criminalization", Conference for Canadian Association ofSexual Assault
Centres, Ottawa, ON.
United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment orPunishment. (1984). Retrieved August 2, 2009 from,
http://www2.ohchr.org/english/law/cat.htm.
Van Dijk, T. (1995a). Power andthenews media. In D. Paletz (Ed.), Political
Communication and Action, (pp. 9-36). Cresskill, NJ: Hampton Press.
Van Dijk, T. (1995b). Themass mediatoday: Discourses ofdomination or diversity?
Javnost/ThePublic Ljubljana, 2(2), 27-45.
Ward, L. (2007, January25). From Alladin to Lost Ark, Muslims get angry at 'bad guy'
film images. Manchester Guardian.
79
Welch, M. (2006). Scapegoats ofSeptember 111th:: Hate Crimes & State Crimes in theWar
onTerror. Piscataway, New Jersey, United States: Rutgers UniversityPress.
Whitaker, R. (2008). Arar: The affair, the inquiry, the aftermath. IRPP Policy Matters 9
Winkler, M. M. (2008). When "extraordinary" means illegal: International law and
European reaction to the United States rendition program. Workingpaper Yale
Law School.
Worthington, A. (2007). The Guantanamo Files: The Stories ofthe 774 Detainees in
America's Illegal Prison. Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States: Pluto Press.
Wortley, S. & Tanner, J. (2005). Inflammatory Rhetoric? Baseless Accusations? A
response to Gabor's critique ofracial profilingresearch in Canada. Canadian
Journal ofCriminology and Criminal Justice, 47(3), 581-609.
Zine, J. (2006). Unveiled sentiments: Gendered Islamophobia and experiences ofveiling
among Muslim girls in a Canadian Islamic school. Equity and Excellence in
Education 39(3), 239-252.
80
