AUGUST 12 2005
A hybrid system approach to recognition of acoustically
similar items 
Gary L. Bradshaw; Ron Cole; Raj Reddy
J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 71, S6 (1982)
https://doi.org/10.1121/1.2019520
  CrossMark
View Export
Online Citation
22
February
2024
20:23:36
TUESDAY MORNING, 27 APRIL 1982 BALLROOM 7, 9:00 TO 11:30 A.M.
SessionC . SpeechC ommunicationI: SpeechP rocessing:A nalysisa nd Synthesis
Cecil H. Coker, Chairman
Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill New Jersey 07974
Chairman's Introduction--9:00
Contributed Papers
9:05 An unconstrainedo ptimizationt echniquei s usedt o find the values
of parameterso f a combinationo f an articulatory and a vocal tract
C1. A hybrid systema pproacht o recognitiono f acousticallys imilar
modelt hat minimize the differenceb etweenm odel spectraa nd natural
items.G ary L. BradshawR, on Cole, and Raj Reddy (ComputerS ci-
speechs pectra.T he articulatory model is anatomicallyr ealistic and
enceD epartmentC, arnegie-MellonU niversityP, ittsburghP, A 15213)
the vocalt ract modeli s a 1ossy Webstere quationf or which a method
Speechr ecognitions ystemsb ased on spectralt emplate-matching of solutioni s given. For Englishv owelsi n the steady state, anatom-
havep rovens uccessfuinl restricteds peechu nderstandingta sks:e spe- ically reasonable articulatory configurationsw hose corresponding
cially, speaker-dependenret cognitiono f isolatedw ordsw ith acousti- spectram atch thoseo f human speecht o within 2 dB have beenc om-
cally distinctv ocabulariesS. uchs ystemsh, owever,h ave only beeno f putedi n fewer than ten iterations.R esultsa re alsog ivenw hich dem-
limited utility where vocabularyi tems are acousticallys imilar, as in onstrate a limited ability of the systemt o track the articulatory dy-
the set B, C, D, E, G, P, T, V, and Z. We will describe a hybrid namicso f voiceds peechT. his is a continuationo f work reportede arlier
systemw hich supplementtsh e spectralt emplatew ith a set of feature [S. E. Levinsona nd C. E. Schmidt, J. Acoust.S oc. Am. Suppl. I 68,
measurementse xtracted from the signal. A learning mechanisma u- S19 (1980)].
tomaticallye xtractsa weightingv ector,w hiche mphasizesin formative
features as well as informative frames in the template. Recognition
9:41
performanceo f the hybrid systemi s superiort o the performanceo f
the systemu singe ither the spectrali nformationa loneo r the featural C5. An investigationo f approachest o languagei dentification.J une
informationa lone.H ybrid recognitiona rchitecturesa re thereforeu se- E. Shoupa nd Deidre Cimarusti (SpeechC ommunicationsR esearch
ful in overcomingp resentl imitations of speechr ecognitions ystems. Laboratory, Inc., 3500 S. Figueroa Street, Suite 202, Los Angeles,
[Work supportedb y NSF.] CA 90007)
This paper will presenta discussiono f approachesu sedi n the area
C2. Abstract withdrawn. of languagei dentification.P ast efforts have attemptedt o developa n
automaticl anguagei dentifications ystemb asedu pon the employment
of linguistic units, i.e., phoneso r phonemes,w ith moderate results.
An approachc urrentlyu nderi nvestigationa t SCRL is the application
of pattern analysist echniquesto featurese xtractedf rom the speech
signal,w ithout regard to specificl inguisticu nits. Upon completiono f
9:17 the first phaseo f the research,i t is likely that a very unusuals et of
featuresw ill provet o be the mostu sefulo ne in identifyingl anguages.
C3. Optimal vectorq uantizationo f speechs pectralp rincipalc ompo-
It will be of interest to examine the relationshipst hat may exist be-
nents.S tephenA . Zahorian (Department of Electrical Engineering,
tween those features which are determined to be the greatest con-
Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA 23508)
tributorst o the classificationp rocessa nd basicl inguisticu nits. [ Work
The vector quantizationm ethod describedb y Linde et al. [IEEE supportedb y RADC. ]
Trans. Commun. 28, 84-95 (1980)] was usedt o optimally quantize
speechs pectralp rincipal componentsT. he spectralp rincipal compo-
nents, obtained from linear combinationso f spectral band energies, 9:53
are an optimal uncorrelatedp arameter set containing a very large
C6. On pitch-synchronoaubsr idgemenotf the linearp redictionre sid-
amount of spectral variance with a relatively small number of di-
ual.N ancyD avidS mith( Naval ResearchL aboratory(N RL), Wash-
mensionsF. or a givenp ercentageo f quantizationd istortion,t he vector
ingtonD C 20375; now with Xerox Corporation,3 450 Hillview Av-
quantizerr equiredf ewer bits per frame than individualq uantization
enue, Palo Alto, CA 94304)
of principal componentst,h us indicating a clusteringo f the speech
data in the uncorrelatedp arameter space.U sing the principal com- We developeda n approacht o abridgingt he short-termL PC resid-
ponentsp arametersto measureb othg ain and spectrals hapea nd using ual and using the abridged information to generate speecha t 16.0
eight bits per frame, the mean squarev ector quantizatione rror was kilobitsp er second(k b/s). The abridgemenlto gicr equiresa n average
about 2.5% in a four-dimensionals pace, and about 5% in a seven- of lesst han one multiply per speechi nput sample.I t offersa simple
dimensionasl pace.S peechs ynthesizedfr om the vectorq uantizedp rin- way to add a high-rate, improvedq uality capability to existing 2.4
cipal componentus singn ine bits per frame was somewhaitn ferior in kb/s LPC voicec ommunicationsy stemsO. ur simulated1 6.0 kb/s
quality to speechs ynthesizedw ith full precisionp rincipalc omponents, residual-excitedli near prediction( RELP) transmissions ystemu sing
but quite intelligible. [Work supportedb y NSF.] abridgemengt eneratesv ery goodq uality speecho utput.O ur abridge-
ment approachi s independenot f voiced/unvoicedd ecisionsr,e stricts
the influenceo f errors to a single frame, and strongly resistsb rief
9:29
input anomaliesW. e designedth is medium-rates ystema s an alter-
C4. Adaptivec omputationo f articulatory parametersf rom the speech native to the basebandr esidual-excitedc oder currently used in the
signal.S . E. Levinsona nd C. E. Schmidt (AcousticsR esearchD e- NRL Multirate Processor( MRP). Our (computationally) simpler
partment,B ell LaboratoriesM, urray Hill, NJ 07974) approachs coreslo wero verallo n the DiagnosticR hyme Test than the
S6 J. Acoust. Soc. Am. Suppl. 1, Vol. 71, Spring 1982 103rd Meeting: AcousticalS ociety of America S6
22
February
2024
20:23:36
