bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Pathogenic mechanisms underlying
adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in congenital heart disease
Running Title: Brain Deficits in Congenital Heart Disease
George C. Gabriel1, Hisato Yagi1, Tuantuan Tan1, Abha Bais1, Benjamin J. Glennon1,
Margaret C. Stapleton1, Lihua Huang2, William T. Reynolds1, Marla G. Shaffer1, Xinxiu
Xu1, Madhavi Ganapathiraju3, Dennis Simon4, Ashok Panigrahy5, Yijen L. Wu1, Cecilia
W. Lo1
(1) Department of Developmental Biology, University of Pittsburgh
(2) Chinese University of Hong Kong
(3) Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh
(4) Department of Critical Care Medicine, University of Pittsburgh
(5) Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
*Correspondence to: Cecilia W. Lo, PhD, Department of Developmental Biology,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 530 45th Street, 8162 Rangos Research
Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15201 Email: cel36@pitt.edu
The authors have declared that no conflict of interest exists.
1
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Abstract
Background: Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), a severe congenital heart disease, is
associated with poor neurodevelopmental outcomes, microcephaly, reduced cortical brain
volume, brain dysmaturation, and neurobehavioral disorders such as autism. The involvement of
patient intrinsic factors was indicated, but the mechanism is largely unknown.
Methods: Ohia mice with HLHS causing mutations in chromatin modifier Sin3A-associated
protein 130 (Sap130) and cell adhesion protein ProtocadherinA9 (Pcdha9) were investigated for
brain abnormalities by histology, immunomicroscopy, and molecular profiling by RNAseq, Sap130
ChIPseq, and genome-wide methylome analysis. Additionally, adult viable Pcdha9m/m and Emx1-
cre:Sap130f/- mice with forebrain deletion of Sap130 were examined by brain MRI and behavioral
assessments.
Results: Ohia mice have brain abnormalities comprising forebrain hypoplasia and microcephaly
in conjunction with a cortical neurogenesis defect. This is associated with loss of intermediate
progenitors due to mitotic arrest and apoptosis from multipolar spindle formation, a mechanism
also observed in primary microcephaly. Brain RNAseq showed perturbation of REST
transcriptional regulation of neurogenesis, disruption of CREB signaling regulating synaptic
plasticity and memory, and defects in neurovascular coupling indicating perturbation of brain-
sparing cerebral autoregulation. Disease pathways recovered included autism, intellectual
disability, and other neurobehavioral/neurological deficits. These same pathways were observed
upon intersection of genes that are differentially expressed with those that are differentially
methylated and also are ChIPseq targets of Sap130, suggesting the transcriptional changes are
epigenetically regulated. Adult viable mice harboring either the Pcdha9 mutation or forebrain-
specific Sap130 deletion showed similar learning/memory deficits and autism-like behavior,
suggesting they act on convergent pathways.
Conclusions: Our observations indicate the intrinsic factors contributing to the adverse
neurodevelopmental outcome associated with HLHS involve spindle defects causing impaired
corticoneurogenesis, and brain and behavioral deficits associated with perturbed epigenetic
regulation of neurodevelopmental pathways.
2
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Novelty and Significance
What is known?
• Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), a severe congenital heart disease, is
associated with adverse neurodevelopmental outcome attributable to patient
intrinsic factors.
• Cortical neurogenesis defect with reduced brain volume and microcephaly are
observed beginning in utero, suggesting a developmental etiology.
• Learning impairment and autism spectrum disorder are commonly observed in
HLHS.
What new information does this article contribute?
• The Ohia HLHS mouse model exhibits neurodevelopmental deficits comprising
microcephaly and cortical neurogenesis defects with loss of neural progenitors
from multipolar spindle formation, as well as impaired neurovascular coupling.
• Molecular profiling showed disturbance of REST, transcriptional regulator of neural
stem cells, and CREB signaling regulating synaptic plasticity, with neurobehavioral
assessments of the mutant mice showing learning/memory and autism-like
behavioral deficits.
• Intersection of transcriptome and DNA methylation analyses uncovered an
epigenetic basis for the neurodevelopmental/neurobehavioral abnormalities,
Analysis of an HLHS mouse model indicated patient intrinsic factors causing
adverse neurodevelopment in HLHS are genetic and epigenetic in etiology. This may
include a mitotic spindle defect that would not be rescued by in utero aortic
3
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
valvuloplasty, and a defect in neurovascular coupling that is likely to reduce the
efficacy of maternal hyperoxygenation. However, epigenetic therapy may provide a
new avenue for treatment that should be explored.
4
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Introduction
Congenital heart disease affects up to 1% of live births, and with surgical and medical
advances, there are now more adults with CHD than infants born annually with CHD1,2. However,
CHD survivors often suffer developmental delay with high risk of neurodevelopmental impairment
that can significantly degrade quality of life3. This is associated with a “neurobehavioral signature”
that includes learning disabilities, impaired social/communication skills, autism spectrum
disorders, and other cognitive, behavioral and neuropsychiatric deficits3,4. While the major
contributing factors were previously thought to be hypoxic injury and complications from multiple
congenital cardiac surgeries, outcome studies have pointed to patient intrinsic factors playing a
prominent role in determining neurodevelopmental outcome4-7. This is supported by the finding of
small head circumference, brain abnormalities, and various neurobehavioral deficits even before
cardiac surgery8-11. That these patient intrinsic factors may encompass genetic factors is
suggested by the fact that chromatin modifiers previously demonstrated to contribute to the
genetic etiology of CHD are also known to cause autism, intellectual disability, cognitive
impairment, and neuropsychiatric disorders12-14. In addition, other patient-specific factors such as
known genetic disorders and socioeconomic status increase risk for adverse neurodevelopmental
outcomes in CHD15,16.
Among patients with CHD, the highest morbidity and mortality is observed in patients with
hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), a severe CHD now survivable with a three-stage surgical
palliation. However, HLHS survivors have high risk of neurodevelopmental delay and
neurobehavioral and cognitive impairment3. This is associated with reductions in functional status
and quality of life, increase in behavioral symptoms, poor adaptive skills required for navigating
school and daily living, and intellectual disability with deficits in full scale IQ17-19. HLHS is also
associated with impaired brain development. Microcephaly, holoprosencephaly, and agenesis of
the corpus callosum are observed in 25% of HLHS fetuses3,11. Microcephaly was shown to predict
early adverse neurologic outcomes20. While the brain volume reductions show correlation with
5
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
lower cerebral substrate delivery, neurodevelopmental outcome was not improved after in utero
fetal intervention with aortic valvuloplasty, suggesting involvement of intrinsic brain defects21.
To investigate the potential causes of poor neurodevelopment in HLHS we pursued
studies using the Ohia mouse model of HLHS. This mouse model was recovered from a large
scale forward genetic screen for CHD and found to harbor two recessive mutations that in
combination cause HLHS, Sin3A-associated chromatin modifier Sap130, and protocadherin cell
adhesion protein Pcdha9 from the a-protocadherin gene cluster22. Both the Sin3A complex and
the clustered protocadherins have essential roles in development of the nervous system. The
Sin3A protein is part of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) repressor complex known to play critical
roles in brain development, and SIN3A deficiency in humans causes Witteveen-Kolk syndrome
associated with intellectual disability, autism, microcephaly, and facial dysmorphism23. Also found
in the Sin3A complex is MECP2, an X-linked methyl CpG binding protein associated with Rett
syndrome, the most common cause of cognitive impairment in females24. The clustered
protocadherins are essential for development of the nervous system. They provide cell surface
diversity encoding neuronal identity regulating synaptic connectivity in the brain25. Mice with
deletion of the entire Pcdha gene cluster exhibit deficits in synaptic connectivity and behavior26.
Mutations in both PCDHA and SIN3A are clinically implicated in autism23,27.
Leveraging the Ohia mouse model, we examined impact of the Sap130/Pcdha9 mutations
on development of the brain with histopathological analysis and immunohistology. Molecular
profiling was conducted using RNA sequencing (RNAseq) and Sap130 chromatin
immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIPseq). Genome wide DNA methylation was also
investigated, as the Sin3A complex has been shown to interact with the Tet family of
methylcytosine dioxygenases to regulate DNA methylation (DNAm)28. DNAm changes are also
well described to play a role in neurodevelopmental/neuropsychiatric disorders29,30. To further
investigate the specific role of Sap130 in the brain abnormalities, we used a floxed Sap130 allele
and Emx1-Cre to generate mice with forebrain-specific deletion of Sap130. As the latter mice and
6
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
mice harboring only the Ohia Pcdha9 mutation are adult viable, we further conducted
neurobehavioral assessments. Together these studies yielded new insights into the pathogenic
mechanisms contributing to the poor neurodevelopment in HLHS.
7
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
METHODS
Extended, more detailed methods are provided in the Supplemental Material. All data supporting
the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
Mouse Husbandry Mouse studies were conducted under a University of Pittsburgh
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee approved animal study protocol. Ohia and
Pcdha9 (c.2389_2399del; [p.Asp796Phefs∗]) mice generated by CRISPR gene editing
were maintained in the C57BL/6J background. B6.129S2-Emx1tm1(cre)Krj/J mice with
Emx1-cre driver were purchased from Jackson Laboratory (Strain #005628) and
intercrossed with Sap130f/f and Sap130+/- mice generated previously22.
Immunostaining and Confocal Microscopy Ohiam/m fetuses were fixed in 4% PFA
overnight, and cryoembedded. Cryosections were generated and stained with different
antibodies to various neural markers (see Supplemental Methods). Human induced
pluripotent stem cell derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) from four HLHS patients were
fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde and stained with antibody against 5-methylcytosine (Active
Motif, RRID: AB_2687950)31. Confocal imaging was conducted with the Leica SP8
confocal microscope and quantitatively analyzed with ImageJ.
Mouse Embryonic Fibroblast Analysis MEFs were isolated from E14.5-E15.5 embryos
as previously described, with three independent MEF lines analyzed. Cells were plated
on glass coverslips, fixed in 4% PFA, stained with antibodies to a-tubulin (Abcam;
ab15246), and g-tubulin (Sigma; T6557) and counterstained with DAPI (Thermo Fisher
Scientific; D1306).
8
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Histological Reconstructions Using Episcopic Confocal Microscopy E14.5 or
newborn mice were euthanized, the heads embedded in paraffin for episcopic confocal
microscopy (ECM) as previously described22. The 2D serial ECM image stacks collected
are digitally resliced and also 3D reconstructed using the OsiriX Dicom viewer
(https://www.osirix-viewer.com) to assess brain anatomical structures.
RNA Sequencing RNA sequencing of brain tissue was conducted using standard
protocols on Illumina HiSeq 2000 (BGI Americas) with 100-bp paired-end reads, and
using standard bioinformatics pipeline (see Supplemental Methods) and aligned to mm10
(NCBI build 38). Differential expression analyses were performed with edgeR, and
differentially expressed genes for Ohiam/m mutant brain were identified with FDR <0.05
(Benjamini–Hochberg), and for Emx1-cre:Sap130f/- with FDR<0.1. Pathway analysis was
carried out genes identified to be differentially expressed.
Chromatin Immunoprecipitation Sequencing Sap130 chromatin immunoprecipitation
was performed with rabbit anti-Sap130 antibody (A302-491A, Bethyl laboratories) and an
iDeal ChIP–seq Kit for Transcription Factors (Diagenode) as previously described22 (see
Supplemental Methods). Reads were aligned to mm10 and Sap130 target regions were
identified with MACS1.4.2. Motif enrichment analysis was performed using MEME suite
version 5.4.1.
Methylation Analysis Methylation analysis was conducted using the Illumina Infinium
mouse methylation beadchip using standard protocol (see Supplemental Methods).
9
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Probes with FDR<0.1 were considered significantly differentially methylated. Differentially
methylated regions (DMRs) were identified using the DMRcate (v 2.4.1) with FDR of 0.05.
Mouse Behavioral Phenotyping Mouse behavior was assessed using three training
paradigms: the Morris water maze, fear conditioning, and sociability. Testing was
completed by operator blinded to genotype. See Supplemental Methods for more details.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging Following behavioral testing, mice underwent in vivo
brain MRI carried out using a Bruker BioSpec 70/30 USR spectrometer (Bruker BioSpin
MRI, Billerica, MA, USA) operating at 7-Tesla with quadrature radio-frequency volume
coil with inner-diameter of 35 mm.
Statistical Analysis: Data were analyzed using GraphPad Prism 9 (GraphPad
Software). For cell quantification independent samples T-test was used (*p<0.05). For
mouse behavioral analysis, data were analyzed by two-way, two-way repeated measures,
or three-way analysis of variance (ANOVA).
10
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Results
Ohia mutant mice double homozygous for the Sap130/Pcdha9 mutations (Ohiam/m) were
previously shown to exhibit HLHS and other CHD with incomplete penetrance22. Head defects
can also be observed, with analysis of 83 newborn pups showing 56.7% with craniofacial defects,
48.2% exhibiting both CHD and craniofacial defects, and 8.5% with only craniofacial defects, while
24% showed only CHD. These findings show incomplete penetrance of the head and heart
defects. The craniofacial defects also were variable in severity, ranging from mild micrognathia to
severe agnathia, often accompanied by low set ears, dome shaped head, and eye defects (Figure
S1).
Examination of gross brain anatomy in Ohia mice (n=40) from E14.5 to E18.5 revealed
81% have forebrain hypoplasia, with 59% exhibiting severe microcephaly (Figure 1A-D). In
approximately half of the severe cases (49.6%), holoprosencephaly was observed. Analysis of
severe mutants using episcopic confocal microscopy (ECM) for serial section histological analysis
and high-fidelity 3D reconstructions revealed hypoplastic/aplastic olfactory bulbs, thin cerebral
cortex, hypoplasia of the cerebellum, reduction of cerebellar fissures, dilation of the lateral
ventricles, and hypoplasia of the corpus callosum (Figure 1E-J). Quantification confirmed
significant cortical thinning, indicating defects in cortical plate formation (Figure 1K-N).
Impaired Cortical Neurogenesis with Reduction of Intermediate Progenitors
Cortical plate formation is orchestrated via the expansion of neural progenitors in the
ventricular and subventricular zone. These progenitors give rise to cells that migrate upwards to
form layers II through VI of the cortical plate, with layer VI being the innermost layer which is also
the first to form and the outermost Layer II being the last to form. Immunostaining using antibodies
for different progenitor lineages and for different layers of the cortical plate showed no change in
Pax6+ apical progenitors (radial glial cells) in the ventricular zone, but Tbr2+ intermediate
progenitors in the subventricular zone were markedly reduced (Figure 2A-L). Satb2, a marker for
postmitotic neurons in the upper layers of the developing cortex, was also markedly reduced,
11
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
indicating failure to form the later born neurons in layers II-IV in the Ohiam/m brain (Fig 2M-P vs.
Q-T, quantified in Fig 2U-Y). In contrast, the Tbr1+ earlier born neurons of layers VI, and Ctip2+
neurons in layer V-VI were present, but abnormally distributed in overlapping domains as
compared to their normal pattern of deployment in wildtype mice (Figure 2Q-T vs. M-P). These
observations indicate a cortical neurogenesis defect involving failure of the intermediate
progenitors to expand, thereby causing deficiency in the later born neurons in layers II-IV.
Loss of Neural Progenitors Associated with Mitotic Block
To elucidate the mechanism of the cortical neurogenesis defect in the Ohiam/m brain, we
quantified cell proliferation and apoptosis. Analysis of E14.5 Ohiam/m brain tissue showed a
significant increase in pH3 positive cells in the subventricular zone, and also increased TUNEL
throughout the ventricular and subventricular zones (Figure 3A-F, quantified in G), findings
reminiscent of those seen in the Ohiam/m HLHS heart tissue22. The fraction of mitotic cells in
anaphase/telophase decreased, indicating metaphase block (Figure 3H)22. Similar findings have
been reported in primary microcephaly and are associated with mitotic spindle defects, such as
with mutations in ASPM, Assembly Factor for Spindle Microtubules, and WDR62, another
centrosome/spindle protein, two genes that account for over 50% of primary microcephaly32,33.
To investigate for spindle defects, mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) derived from
Ohiam/m mutant embryos and littermate controls were immunostained for a-tubulin to visualize the
spindle apparatus and g-tubulin for the centrosome. This revealed a marked increase in multi-
polar spindles in the Ohiam/m MEFs that are seldom seen in wildtype MEFs (Figure 3L-N vs. 3I-K,
quantified in 3O). This was associated with an increase in mitotic cells at prophase/metaphase
(P/M) and concomitant decrease in anaphase/telophase (A/T), confirming mitotic block (Figure
3P). Amongst cells in anaphase, a much higher incidence of lagging chromosomes was observed
(Figure 3Q, R). Together these findings support a spindle defect contributing to the loss of later
born neurons in cortical layers II-IV and the emergence of microcephaly in Ohiam/m mice.
12
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Dysregulated Gene Expression and Defects in Neurodevelopment
Transcriptome profiling was conducted with RNAseq analysis of E13.5-E14.5 brain from
Ohiam/m mutants (n=3) and wildtype littermate controls (n=5). This yielded 1,549 differentially
expressed genes (DEGs), 1,081 downregulated and 468 upregulated (FDR 0.05; Supplemental
Dataset 1). Metascape analysis of the DEGs yielded many nervous system related terms,
including forebrain development, forebrain generation of neurons, synapse assembly, axon
guidance, action potential, glutamatergic synapses, ion transport, and learning and memory
(Figure 4A). Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) of the DEGS for upstream regulators and
downstream pathways recovered as upstream regulators, REST - repressor element 1 silencing
transcription factor, which was upregulated, DTNBP1 - dystrobrevin binding protein 1, and SGK1
- serum glucocorticoid regulated kinase 1, both down regulated (Supplemental Dataset 1). The
recovery of REST is particularly notable in the context of microcephaly, as REST is known to
control expansion of neural progenitors via recruitment of HDACs to the Sin3A complex to repress
transcription of proneuronal genes, including the GRIN family of glutamate receptors, which are
downregulated in the Ohia mutant brain (Figure 4B)34. DTNBP1 regulates neurotransmitter
release and receptor signaling and is linked to cognitive impairment and schizophrenia, while
SGK1 regulates glutamate receptor expression and facilitates spatial learning and hippocampal
long-term potentiation35-37. The downstream biological processes predicted to be impacted by the
transcriptomic changes in this upstream-downstream analyses are all neurobehavioral related,
including learning, long-term potentiation, coordination, conditioning, analgesia, hyperalgesia
(Figure 4B).
IPA canonical pathway analysis also recovered cyclic AMP response element binding
protein (CREB) signaling, synaptic depression/potentiation, synaptogenesis signaling, GABA
receptor signaling, and calcium signaling (Figure 4C; Supplemental Dataset 1). Associated with
the CREB signaling pathway is the reduction in glutamate receptor signaling and downregulation
of PKC, PLC, PKA, calmodulin, and CAMKII/CAMK4 (Figure 4D). This pathway has critical roles
13
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
in synaptic plasticity mediating long term memory, and is involved in the pathogenic alteration of
synaptic plasticity and memory associated with neurocognitive disorders and various
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s Disease and Huntington’s disease, and
implicated in schizophrenia and depressive disorders38. ToppGene disease pathway enrichment
analysis identified autism, mental depression, intellectual disability, seizures, various
neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and also recovered was
neurodegenerative diseases (Figure 4E, Supplemental Dataset 1). Interestingly, we also
observed circadian rhythm, which may reflect the known role of CREB in circadian rhythm
regulation39.
Perturbation of Neurovascular Coupling Involving Defect in Nitric Oxide Signaling
The top IPA pathway recovered from the Ohia mutant brain RNAseq analysis was
neurovascular coupling, an autoregulatory mechanism by which the brain’s energy demands are
closely coordinated with cerebral blood flow (Figure 4C)40. This regulation is mediated by neuronal
activity dependent production of nitric oxide (NO), which promotes relaxation of vascular smooth
muscle, causing dilation of cerebral arteries to increase blood flow to the brain. In the Ohia
mutant brain, there is marked reduction in the expression of transcripts for nitric oxide synthase
(NOS, see blue asterisks, Figure 5), indicating such autoregulation may be impaired. The
downregulation of NOS (FDR=8.03E-14, Supplemental Dataset 1) is observed to be accompanied
by reduction of guanylate cyclase and many ion channel proteins regulating neuronal activity and
vascular smooth muscle relaxation/contraction (Figure 5). The only gene upregulated is cGMP
dependent protein kinase PKG, likely a compensatory response to the reduced NO (Figure 5).
Overall, these transcriptional changes would suggest the brain sparing autoregulation often
observed with CHD may be impaired in the Ohia mutant41. We note clinically, such autoregulation
has been shown to be impaired in fetuses with HLHS, supporting the present findings in the Ohia
14
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
mutant mice42. Also supporting disturbance of NO signaling is the additional recovery of the IPA
pathway, “Effect of sildenafil”, a drug commonly used to promote vasodilation by enhancing NO
signaling via the inhibition of phosphodiesterase breaking down cGMP (Figure 4C). NO signaling
has additional roles in CREB regulated neuronal gene expression43 to determine synaptic
plasticity in learning/memory.
Chromatin Immunoprecipitation Sequencing Recovers Genes Regulating Neurogenesis
To elucidate how Sap130 may contribute to brain abnormalities in the Ohia mutant mice,
we conducted chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIPseq) analysis with a Sap130
antibody to identify genes that may be subject to Sap130 regulation. ChIPseq analysis of E13.5
wildtype mouse brain tissue recovered 16,231 Sap130 binding sites, with 10,753 situated within
1 kb of transcriptional start sites, identifying the associated genes as possible Sap130 target
genes (Supplemental Dataset 2). This included transcription regulators of neurogenesis such as
Rest, Sin3A, CTCF, Satb2, Klf13, and also microcephaly-related genes such as Aspm and Wdr62
(Figure 6A). Pathway enrichment analysis of these putative Sap130 target genes yielded GO
biological processes comprising chromosome organization, cell cycle progression, and
neurogenesis (Figure 6B). Cellular components recovered included mitochondrion, centrosome,
glutamatergic synapse and transcriptional regulation (Figure 6C). For human phenotypes,
hypoplasia/dysplasia of the cerebrum, reduced head circumference, microcephaly, and
intellectual disability were recovered (Figure 6D). Disease pathway yielded some of the same
terms as in human phenotype, but additionally, included neurodevelopmental delay,
neurodegenerative disorders, epilepsy, autism, and ciliopathies (Figure 6E, Supplemental
Dataset 2). Transcription factor binding site analysis identified enrichment for SP, KLF, IRF, ELF,
and RFX motifs (Figure 6F). SP and KLF are closely related zinc finger proteins that bind GC rich
promoters, and are commonly associated with pluripotency and cell cycle genes44. KLF, Kruppel
like transcription factors, also are known to have important roles in brain and heart
development45,46. As neurodevelopmental defects are often seen in ciliopathies, we further
15
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
examined ciliogenesis in the Ohia mutant brain. A marked reduction in ciliation was observed,
supporting an association with ciliopathy (Figure 6G-I).
DNA Methylation and Transcriptional Perturbations in Ohia Mutant Brain
Parallel analysis of DNA methylation was conducted using the Illumina Infinium mouse
methylome array with probes for over 285,000 CpG sites genome wide47. Analysis was conducted
on DNA from the forebrain tissue of E15.5 Ohiam/m mutant mice (n=3) with microcephaly vs. age
matched C57BL/6J wildtype mice (n=3). Total DNA methylation (DNAm) level was observed to
be reduced in the Ohia mutant mice when compared to that of wildtype controls (Figure 7A). Using
a 5-methycytosine antibody, we investigated clinical relevance of these findings by examining
DNA methylation in the induced pluripotent stem cell derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CM) of four
HLHS patients vs. two control subjects. This also showed reduction in total DNAm level in the
HLHS patient iPSC-CM (Figure 7B,C).
Analysis of the total beadchip data of the Ohia mutant and wildtype mouse brain showed
correlation of higher promoter DNAm with lower gene expression (Figure S2). We recovered
5,117 differentially methylated regions (DMRs; FDR<0.05) associated with 4,179 genes (Figure
7E; Supplemental Dataset 3). By way of example, we show CpG methylation associated with two
DMRs in Klf13, a negative regulator of CREB signaling involved in axonogenesis and neurite
outgrowth (Figure 7D)46. Marked increase in DNA methylation was observed at the DMR situated
at the terminal exon of Klf13, interestingly a genomic region with high sequence conservation
across species (Figure 7D).
Intersection of genes associated with the DMR and downregulated DEGs recovered from
the RNAseq analysis identified 297 genes (Figure 7E, Supplemental Dataset 4).ToppGene
pathway enrichment analysis yielded Mouse Phenotypes related to brain, behavior, and
neurological function (Figure 7G, Supplemental Dataset 4), and for Diseases, we observed
autism, intellectual disability, and epilepsy, diseases known to be associated with HLHS
(Supplemental Dataset 4). No Human Phenotype was recovered in this analysis. In contrast,
16
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
intersection of upregulated DEGs with DMRs identified 61 genes, associated with metabolic
pathways (Figure S3, Supplemental Dataset 4).
DNA methylation and Sap130 Mediated Transcriptional Regulation
To assess potential impact of the Sap130 mutation on the epigenetic and transcriptional
changes observed in the Ohia mutant brain, we conducted additional three-way intersection of
the up or downregulated DEGs with the DMR associated and Sap130 ChIPseq genes. With the
downregulated DEGs, this three-way intersection yielded 161 genes (Figure 7F), and ToppGene
analysis recovered similar Mouse Phenotypes and Diseases as seen with the two-way DMR/DEG
intersecting genes, thus indicating that genes contributing to the neurological phenotypes and
diseases are likely subject to Sap130 regulation (Figure 7H; Supplemental Dataset 4). In contrast
to these findings with the downregulated DEGs, three-way intersection of the upregulated DEGs
yielded only 43 genes (Figure S3), and no Mouse Phenotype or Disease terms recovered. Several
disease terms associated with neurodevelopmental impairment were found across multiple
analyses (Figure 7I). Overall, these findings suggest DNA methylation associated with Sap130
epigenetic regulation underlie the brain and neurological phenotypes and diseases associated
with the Ohia mutant mice.
Protein-Protein Interactome Network Analysis
To further functionalize genes downregulated and differentially methylated in the Ohia
brain, STRING-db was used to construct protein-protein interaction (PPI) network
(Supplementary Dataset 5). This analysis yielded significant findings with the PPI network
assembled from the hypomethylated and downregulated genes (n=127, FDR=0.05; Figure S4).
This network comprising 132 genes included 82 of the 127 hypomethylated/downregulated genes
and 50 additional genes recovered by STRING-db (Figure S4A; Supplementary Dataset 5).
ToppGene analysis yielded significant terms for Mouse Phenotype, Human Phenotype, Diseases,
and Pathways. For Human Phenotype, polymicrogyria was retrieved as the top phenotype (Figure
S4B), a defect involving abnormal small cortical folds in the forebrain, a phenotype also seen in
17
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
human fetuses with HLHS and in primary microcephaly42,48. Also observed were multiple seizure
related terms, and abnormal hippocampal morphology (Figure S4B). For Mouse Phenotype, this
yielded terms such as cerebral hemisphere morphology, abnormal forebrain morphology,
abnormal neuron morphology, abnormal inhibitory postsynaptic currents, terms not seen with
analysis of the DMR/DEG intersecting genes alone (Figure S4C). Disease terms recovered
included several that overlapped those seen with the DMR/DEG analysis, such as
neurodevelopmental disorder, autism, impaired cognition, and epilepsy (Figure S4D).
Interestingly, from Pathway enrichment, multiple cilia related terms were recovered, with the top
pathway being “cargo targeting to cilium”, and also “cargo trafficking to periciliary membrane” and
“cilium assembly” (Figure S4E). Together these findings point to the disturbance of ciliogenesis,
consistent with the reduced ciliation observed in the Ohia mutant forebrain (Figure 6G-I).
Forebrain Specific Deletion of Sap130 Causes Microcephaly
The histological analysis and molecular profiling of Ohiam/m fetal mice showed
microcephaly associated with prominent forebrain defects. To investigate if these defects may be
cell autonomous and specific to requirement of Sap130 in the forebrain, we generated a floxed
allele of Sap130 and intercrossed it into mice carrying Emx1-Cre to target forebrain specific
deletion of Sap130. This Cre driver is expressed in excitatory neurons and glia in the developing
cerebral cortex from E9.5 onwards49. We observed the Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/- mice do not exhibit
CHD, and are adult viable. Nevertheless, they have microcephaly with prominent reduction in
forebrain size (Figure 8A), which was confirmed with measurement of the brain/body weight ratio
(Figure 8B). Real time PCR analysis showed marked reduction in Sap130 transcripts in the
forebrain (Figure 8C). Interestingly, the microcephaly in the Emx1-Cre:Sap13f/- mice showed
complete penetrance, unlike the Ohiam/m mice. Among the 28 genes known to cause primary
microcephaly, many of which are centrosome related, four were up regulated in the Emx1-
Cre:Sap130f/- forebrain (Wdr62, Cit, Ncapd2, Pcnt) (Figure 8D; Supplemental Dataset 6).
Centrosome amplification can cause spindle defects and is one of the pathogenic mechanisms
18
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
known to cause microcephaly50. These findings indicate a cell autonomous requirement for
Sap130 in the forebrain in regulating expansion of neural progenitors.
RNAseq analysis of the E14.5 forebrain of Emx1-cre:Sap130f/- mice (n=3) and littermate
controls (n=3) recovered 369 DEGs, 202 down and 167 upregulated (FDR<0.1; Supplemental
Dataset 6). IPA pathway enrichment analysis of the DEGs identified axonal guidance as the top
pathway, followed by cell cycle, Wnt signaling, and semaphorin signaling in neurons (Figure 8E).
Also observed were GADD45 signaling, a stress activated pathway induced with DNA damage
and cell cycle checkpoint control, DNA break repair, and HOTAIR regulation - a lncRNA regulating
cell cycle and apoptosis via epigenetic gene silencing by providing a scaffold for chromatin
remodeling with recruitment of REST/Co-REST and lysine demethylase LSD1, proteins in the
Sin3A complex. Further analysis for gene set enrichment also recovered “Centrosome” and
“Mitotic Spindle”, further supporting mitotic spindle defects (Figure 8F). In addition, “Hypoxia” was
recovered in the gene set enrichment analysis, an unexpected finding given the Emx1-Cre
deletion mice do not have CHD. Mouse Phenotype terms recovered included abnormal neuronal
differentiation, abnormal forebrain morphology, abnormal limbic system, small olfactory bulb,
abnormal neural precursor, abnormal social interaction and abnormal neocortex (Figure 8G). For
“Disease” enrichment, intellectual disability was recovered as the top pathway, and also
recovered were impaired cognition, neurodevelopmental disorders, microcephaly, and autism
(Figure 8H), results overlapping with transcriptomic changes observed in the Ohia mutant brain.
Also recovered were cerebrovascular accidents and hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy,
supporting the finding of hypoxia. Together these findings suggest microcephaly in Ohia mutants
is not secondary to CHD, but may reflect the cell autonomous requirement for Sap130 for normal
forebrain neurodevelopment.
Adult Pcdha9m/m and Emx1Cre Deleted Sap130 Mice Exhibit Behavioral Deficits
The molecular profiling of the developing Ohiam/m fetal brain predicts impaired cognitive
function with possible learning/memory defects and autism spectrum disorder. To assess for
19
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
these neurobehavorial deficits, we generated adult viable mice homozygous for the Pcdha9
mutation, and also mice Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/- mice with forebrain deletion of Sap130 as described
above. Brain anatomy of the Emx1-cre:Sap130f/- and Pcdha9m/m adult mice were analyzed using
brain MRI. The Emx1-cre: Sap130f/- mice showed significant reduction in total forebrain volume,
and volume of the corpus callosum, cortex, and hippocampus (Figure 9A-F). In the Pcdha9 mutant
mice, only mild hippocampal dysplasia was observed but no other appreciable changes in brain
structure or size (Figure 9G,H). Neurobehavioral phenotypes were further assessed using three
tests to evaluate spatial learning and memory, fear associative learning, and sociability. These
tests were administered on 18 female and 6 male Pcdha9m/m mice and 6 male and 3 female Emx1-
cre:Sap130f/- mice. For the Pcdha9m/m mice, equal number of sex and age matched C57BL/6J
wildtype mice were assessed as controls. For the Emx1-cre:Sap130f/- mice, littermate controls
were used comprising Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/+ mice and Sap130f/+ mice without Emx1-cre.
Spatial learning and memory were interrogated using the Morris water maze whereby mice
are trained to find a hidden platform in a pool of water. After training, no significant difference in
the time (latency) required to find the hidden platform was observed for either the Pcdha9m/m or
Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/- mice (Figure 9I,J, Figures S5,S6). In the fear conditioning test, mice learn to
associate a cue (a tone) with an adverse event (foot shock) administered after the cue. After
training, mice typically freeze when they hear the cue, but return to normal activity post cue. Emx1-
Cre:Sap130f/- mice and Pcdha9m/m female, but not male mice, showed increased post-cue
freezing, indicating impaired associative learning (Figure 9K,L; Figures S5,S6). We also
conducted sociability testing in which mice are presented with a novel object vs. a novel mouse.
While wildtype and littermate control mice showed preference for the novel mouse (Figure 9M,N),
Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/- mice and Pcdha9m/m female, but not male mice, showed equal time spent
exploring the novel object and novel mouse (Figure 9M,N, Figures S5,S6), indicating autism-like
social interaction deficits. It was not possible to assess gender effects in the Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/-
mice given the smaller cohort size.
20
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
DISCUSSION
CHD patients, most of whom now survive to adulthood, are at high risk of adverse
neurodevelopmental outcome that can significantly degrade their quality of life. Our studies of
Ohia mice with mutations causing HLHS revealed a cortical neurogenesis defect associated with
microcephaly, impaired neurovascular coupling and neurobehavioral deficits, phenotypes
associated with HLHS. This is congruent with the finding that many genes highly expressed in the
heart are also highly expressed in the brain12. Also notable, a substantial fraction of de novo
pathogenic mutations recovered from CHD patients are in genes associated with
neurodevelopmental disabilities (NDD)12. The forebrain hypoplasia and microcephaly observed in
Ohia mice are reminiscent of the brain volume reduction observed clinically with in utero imaging
and is closely correlated with reduction in fetal brain oxygenation51-53. These findings are in line
with our transcriptome profiling indicating a defect in “neurovascular coupling”. A reduction in nitric
oxide synthase is also observed, predicting a disruption in cerebral autoregulation, a circuit
observed in CHD fetuses shunting blood to the brain to improve fetal brain oxygenation41. Indeed,
impaired cerebral autoregulation has been suggested by a clinical study of fetuses with evolving
HLHS42. Using measurement of nasal NO (nNO) as a surrogate measure for intrinsic NO
production capacity we previously showed HLHS patients have low nNO, and hence likely low
NO production capacity54. Follow up blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) brain MRI showed
CHD patients with low nNO also have impaired neurovascular coupling, and also impaired
cognitive function55. We noted the brain transcriptome profiling of Emx1-Cre:Sap130flx/- mouse
forebrain yielded “hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy” and “cerebrovascular accident”, suggesting
neurovascular coupling defect arising from Sap130 deficiency in the brain alone.
We showed the forebrain hypoplasia and microcephaly are likely the result of a cortical
neurogenesis defect from loss of later born neurons in cortical layers II-IV. Previous clinical MRI
study of human fetuses with HLHS also uncovered a cortical neurogenesis defect associated with
volume reduction in the cortical subplate, intermediate and ventricular zone56. Our transcriptome
21
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
analysis indicated the disturbance of REST, a master transcriptional regulator that recruits HDACs
to the Sin3A complex to epigenetically regulate neural progenitor expansion and neural stem cell
maintenance57-60. HDAC deficiency in mice can cause microcephaly with similar loss of
intermediate progenitors from the perturbation of REST61. Mutations in ZNF335, another
component of the Sin3A complex required for REST regulation of neurogenesis can cause a
clinically extreme form of microcephaly62. Together these findings indicate the Sin3A complex and
Sap130 play an essential role in cortical neurogenesis.
At the cellular level, we observed the loss of intermediate progenitors is associated with
apoptosis likely mediated by metaphase block and mitotic check point activation from multipolar
spindle formation. Consistent with this, “centrosome” and “mitotic spindle” were recovered from
gene set enrichment analysis of the Emx1-Cre:Sap130flx/- forebrain transcriptome, and “cell cycle”
and “centrosome” were recovered from the Sap130 ChIPseq analysis. These findings suggest
centrosome function is subject to Sap130 regulation. Multipolar spindle formation is a pathogenic
mechanism known to cause primary microcephaly, such as with mutations in Wdr62, one of the
major genetic causes of microcephaly63. Interestingly, elevated expression of Wdr62 and several
other microcephaly associated centrosomal genes was observed in Ohia mutant brain, indicating
possible centrosome amplification, a pathogenic mechanism also associated with primary
microcephaly50,64.
We observed a ciliogenesis defect in Ohia brain cortex that may reflect secondary defect
involving the basal, which is centrosome derived, and provides the template for ciliogenesis. As
primary cilia also transduce cell signaling regulating interneuronal connectivity, cilia defects have
been proposed to cause circuit malformations in ciliopathies65. The finding of holoprosencephaly
among Ohia mutants and HLHS patients would suggest possible perturbation of cilia transduced
hedgehog signaling66. Particularly notable is recovery of “ciliopathy” as a significant disease
pathway from the Sap130 ChIPseq analysis. Clinically, HLHS has been observed in association
with various ciliopathies, with one study showing increased burden for ciliopathy related sequence
22
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
variants in HLHS patients67,68. Multiple other cilia-related pathways were also recovered in the
PPI network analysis.
We also observed the disturbance of CREB signaling, a cAMP and calcium responsive
transcriptional pathway regulating neuronal plasticity, learning and memory, long term
potentiation and the encoding of long-term memory. As CREB also can be modulated by NO, NO
deficiency can exacerbate CREB associated neurological deficits43. CREB perturbation would
predict cognitive impairment and also memory related diseases such as Alzhemier’s38. HLHS and
other single ventricle CHD patients have hazards ratio of 2.6 (95% CI:1.8-3.8) for early onset
dementia38,69. CREB signaling also regulates dopaminergic neurons implicated in autism, and
CREB disturbance has been associated with Timothy syndrome, a disorder with high penetrance
for autism70. Our mouse behavioral assessment identified impairment in contextual
learning/memory and also autism-like social interaction deficits. Surprisingly the same defects
were observed in both the Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/- and Pchda9 mutant mice. Disease pathway
enrichment of the transcriptome profile from the Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/- mouse forebrain yielded
intellectual disability, impaired cognition and autism. Disturbance of REST transcriptional
regulation and altered CREB signaling can contribute to these behavioral deficits via perturbation
in neuronal differentiation, synaptic plasticity and synapse and neural network formation. The
Pcdh9 mutation may exert synergistic effects via interactions with the Sin3A complex, as
expression of the protocadherin gene cluster is regulated by CTCF recruitment of TET
demethylases to the Sin3A complex for Pcdha promoter demethylation71. Thus, the Pcdha9
mutation may amplify impact of the Sap130 mutation via perturbation of protocadherin regulated
patterning of synaptic connectivity. This may account for the finding of similar neurobehavioral
deficits in the Emx1-Cre:Sap130f/- mice with microcephaly, and Pcdha9 mutant mice with largely
normal brain anatomy. Interestingly, in Williams syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder
associated with cognitive impairment and aortic valve defects, DNA hypermethylation of the
PCDHA locus is also observed72,73. Our finding of behavioral impairment only in the female
23
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Pcdha9m/m mice is unexplained, although Mecp2, a methyl-CPG binding protein causing Rett
syndrome found in the Sin3A complex, is situated on the X-chromosome74.
Transcriptome analysis of the Ohia mutant brain yielded similar
neurodevelopmental/neurological disease pathways as those observed in the Emx1-
Cre:Sap130f/-mice, supporting the notion that Sap130 and Pcdha9 likely act on convergent
pathways. Many of these diseases are known to be associated with HLHS, such as intellectual
disability, impaired cognition, autism, and development disorders. As we observed the same
disease pathways when the differentially expressed genes were intersected with genes recovered
from the DNA methylation analysis and the ChiPseq analysis, this suggested the gene expression
changes in the Ohia brain reflect transcriptional changes involving Sap130 modulated DNA
methylation. Consistent with this, Sap130 and Sin3A were previously shown to be required for R-
loop formation, an abundant three stranded structure shown to promote transcription by blocking
gene promoter DNA methylation75,76. The essential role of Sap130 in orchestrating this epigenetic
regulation is indicated by the observation that in the Emx1-Cre:Sap130-/flx mice, the microcephaly
phenotype exhibited 100% penetrance as compared to the 30-50% penetrance in the Ohia mutant
mice harboring a hypomorphic Sap130 mutation. The recovery of DNA methylation” and “HOTAIR
regulation” in transcriptome profiling of the Emx1-Cre:Sap130-/flx forebrain provided further
support of the essential role of Sap130 in regulating DNA methylation. The importance of DNA
methylation in neurodevelopmental disorders is well documented by the recent identification of
methylation signatures for 42 neurodevelopmental disorders, and also for schizophrenia, autism,
bipolar disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder30,77,78. DNA methylation signature has
also been recently reported for Witteveen-Kolk syndrome, further pointing to involvement of the
Sin3A complex in such epigenetic regulation79.
While our study is based on interrogating the only genetically defined mouse model of
HLHS, the Ohia mutant, the fact that our mice exhibit phenotypes similar to those reported
clinically for patients with HLHS would suggest there are convergent pathways underlying the
24
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
shared disease phenotypes regardless of their genetic etiology. This would suggest our findings
will have broad relevance for insights into the disease mechanisms contributing to the poor
neurodevelopment associated with HLHS. Our finding of an intrinsic spindle defect may explain
the failure to improve neurocognitive outcome with in utero aortic valvuloplasty21. The
therapeutic application of maternal hyperoxygenation in utero to promote brain growth also may
be confounded by defects in neurovascular coupling that may impair brain oxygenation even in
the setting of maternal hyperoxygenation80,81. However, treatment to elevate NO might have
therapeutic potential if it can restore neurovascular coupling and also NO dependent CREB
signaling. Epigenetic therapy also may be possible with drugs targeting DNA methylation or DNA
methyltransferases82. We note an Ohia pig model is being generated, and with a gyrencephalic
brain, it will be superior for modeling brain defects associated with HLHS, and testing the efficacy
of new therapies to improve neurodevelopment in HLHS 83.
.
25
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Author Contributions
GCG, BJG, MGS performed mouse husbandry and genotyping, GCG performed mouse brain
immunostaining and cell culture work; GCG, AB, LH, HY performed RNAseq, ChIPseq, and
methylation experiments and analysis; MG assisted with PPI visualization, GCG and DS
performed mouse behavioral testing and analysis; GCG, WTR performed episcopic confocal
microscopy analysis of mouse brains; XX performed human iPSC methylation analysis, MCS and
YLW performed brain MRI imaging and analysis, GCG and CWL participated in the experimental
design and analysis of results; GCG, BJG, AP, CWL performed manuscript writing and editing.
All authors approved the final manuscript.
Sources of Funding
This research was supported by NIH grants HD097967 (GCG) and HL14278 (CWL). YLW is
supported by funding from AHA (18CDA34140024), NIH (EB023507, NS121706), and DoD
(W81XWH1810070).
Disclosures
The authors report no disclosures.
26
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
REFERENCES
1. Reller MD, Strickland MJ, Riehle-Colarusso T, Mahle WT and Correa A. Prevalence of
congenital heart defects in metropolitan Atlanta, 1998-2005. The Journal of pediatrics.
2008;153:807-813.
2. Hoffman JI and Kaplan S. The incidence of congenital heart disease. Journal of the
American college of cardiology. 2002;39:1890-1900.
3. Marino BS, Lipkin PH, Newburger JW, Peacock G, Gerdes M, Gaynor JW, Mussatto KA,
Uzark K, Goldberg CS and Johnson Jr WH. Neurodevelopmental outcomes in children with
congenital heart disease: evaluation and management: a scientific statement from the American
Heart Association. Circulation. 2012;126:1143-1172.
4. Marelli A, Miller SP, Marino BS, Jefferson AL and Newburger JW. Brain in Congenital Heart
Disease Across the Lifespan. Circulation. 2016;133:1951-1962.
5. Gaynor JW, Wernovsky G, Jarvik GP, Bernbaum J, Gerdes M, Zackai E, Nord AS, Clancy RR,
Nicolson SC and Spray TL. Patient characteristics are important determinants of
neurodevelopmental outcome at one year of age after neonatal and infant cardiac surgery. The
Journal of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery. 2007;133:1344-1353. e3.
6. Fuller S, Nord AS, Gerdes M, Wernovsky G, Jarvik GP, Bernbaum J, Zackai E and Gaynor
JW. Predictors of impaired neurodevelopmental outcomes at one year of age after infant cardiac
surgery. European journal of cardio-thoracic surgery. 2009;36:40-48.
7. Newburger JW, Sleeper LA, Bellinger DC, Goldberg CS, Tabbutt S, Lu M, Mussatto KA,
Williams IA, Gustafson KE and Mital S. Early developmental outcome in children with hypoplastic
left heart syndrome and related anomalies: the single ventricle reconstruction trial. Circulation.
2012;125:2081-2091.
8. Hinton RB, Andelfinger G, Sekar P, Hinton AC, Gendron RL, Michelfelder EC, Robitaille Y
and Benson DW. Prenatal head growth and white matter injury in hypoplastic left heart
syndrome. Pediatric research. 2008;64:364-369.
9. Miller SP, McQuillen PS, Hamrick S, Xu D, Glidden DV, Charlton N, Karl T, Azakie A, Ferriero
DM and Barkovich AJ. Abnormal brain development in newborns with congenital heart disease.
New England Journal of Medicine. 2007;357:1928-1938.
10. Owen M, Shevell M, Majnemer A and Limperopoulos C. Abnormal brain structure and
function in newborns with complex congenital heart defects before open heart surgery: a review
of the evidence. Journal of Child Neurology. 2011;26:743-755.
11. Glauser TA, Rorke LB, Weinberg PM and Clancy RR. Congenital brain anomalies associated
with the hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Pediatrics. 1990;85:984-990.
12. Homsy J, Zaidi S, Shen Y, Ware JS, Samocha KE, Karczewski KJ, DePalma SR, McKean D,
Wakimoto H and Gorham J. De novo mutations in congenital heart disease with
neurodevelopmental and other congenital anomalies. Science. 2015;350:1262-1266.
13. Zaidi S, Choi M, Wakimoto H, Ma L, Jiang J, Overton JD, Romano-Adesman A, Bjornson RD,
Breitbart RE and Brown KK. De novo mutations in histone-modifying genes in congenital heart
disease. Nature. 2013;498:220-223.
14. Schanen NC. Epigenetics of autism spectrum disorders. Human molecular genetics.
2006;15:R138-R150.
27
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
15. Bucholz EM, Sleeper LA, Goldberg CS, Pasquali SK, Anderson BR, Gaynor JW, Cnota JF and
Newburger JW. Socioeconomic Status and Long-term Outcomes in Single Ventricle Heart Disease.
Pediatrics. 2020;146.
16. Rollins CK, Newburger JW and Roberts AE. Genetic contribution to neurodevelopmental
outcomes in congenital heart disease: are some patients predetermined to have developmental
delay? Curr Opin Pediatr. 2017;29:529-533.
17. Goldberg CS, Hu C, Brosig C, Gaynor JW, Mahle WT, Miller T, Mussatto KA, Sananes R,
Uzark K, Trachtenberg F, Pizarro C, Pemberton VL, Lewis AB, Li JS, Jacobs JP, Cnota J, Atz AM, Lai
WW, Bellinger D, Newburger JW and Phn I. Behavior and Quality of Life at 6 Years for Children
With Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome. Pediatrics. 2019;144.
18. Sananes R, Goldberg CS, Newburger JW, Hu C, Trachtenberg F, Gaynor JW, Mahle WT,
Miller T, Uzark K, Mussatto KA, Pizarro C, Jacobs JP, Cnota J, Atz AM, Lai WW, Burns KM, Milazzo
A, Votava-Smith J, Brosig CL and investigators PHN. Six-Year Neurodevelopmental Outcomes for
Children With Single-Ventricle Physiology. Pediatrics. 2021;147.
19. Siciliano RE, Prussien KV, Lee CA, Patel NJ, Murphy LK, Compas BE and Jordan LC. Cognitive
Function in Pediatric Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. J
Pediatr Psychol. 2019;44:937-947.
20. Hangge PT, Cnota JF, Woo JG, Hinton AC, Divanovic AA, Manning PB, Ittenbach RF and
Hinton RB. Microcephaly is associated with early adverse neurologic outcomes in hypoplastic left
heart syndrome. Pediatr Res. 2013;74:61-7.
21. Laraja K, Sadhwani A, Tworetzky W, Marshall AC, Gauvreau K, Freud L, Hass C, Dunbar-
Masterson C, Ware J, Lafranchi T, Wilkins-Haug L and Newburger JW. Neurodevelopmental
Outcome in Children after Fetal Cardiac Intervention for Aortic Stenosis with Evolving Hypoplastic
Left Heart Syndrome. J Pediatr. 2017;184:130-136 e4.
22. Liu X, Yagi H, Saeed S, Bais AS, Gabriel GC, Chen Z, Peterson KA, Li Y, Schwartz MC and
Reynolds WT. The complex genetics of hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Nature genetics.
2017;49:1152-1159.
23. Witteveen JS, Willemsen MH, Dombroski TC, Van Bakel NH, Nillesen WM, Van Hulten JA,
Jansen EJ, Verkaik D, Veenstra-Knol HE and van Ravenswaaij-Arts CM. Haploinsufficiency of
MeCP2-interacting transcriptional co-repressor SIN3A causes mild intellectual disability by
affecting the development of cortical integrity. Nature Genetics. 2016;48:877-887.
24. Amir RE, Van den Veyver IB, Wan M, Tran CQ, Francke U and Zoghbi HY. Rett syndrome is
caused by mutations in X-linked MECP2, encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2. Nat Genet.
1999;23:185-8.
25. Thu CA, Chen WV, Rubinstein R, Chevee M, Wolcott HN, Felsovalyi KO, Tapia JC, Shapiro
L, Honig B and Maniatis T. Single-cell identity generated by combinatorial homophilic interactions
between α, β, and γ protocadherins. Cell. 2014;158:1045-1059.
26. Mountoufaris G, Chen WV, Hirabayashi Y, O’Keeffe S, Chevee M, Nwakeze CL, Polleux F
and Maniatis T. Multicluster Pcdh diversity is required for mouse olfactory neural circuit
assembly. Science. 2017;356:411-414.
27. Anitha A, Thanseem I, Nakamura K, Yamada K, Iwayama Y, Toyota T, Iwata Y, Suzuki K,
Sugiyama T and Tsujii M. Protocadherin α (PCDHA) as a novel susceptibility gene for autism.
Journal of Psychiatry and Neuroscience. 2013;38:192-198.
28
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
28. Zhu F, Zhu Q, Ye D, Zhang Q, Yang Y, Guo X, Liu Z, Jiapaer Z, Wan X, Wang G, Chen W, Zhu
S, Jiang C, Shi W and Kang J. Sin3a-Tet1 interaction activates gene transcription and is required
for embryonic stem cell pluripotency. Nucleic Acids Res. 2018;46:6026-6040.
29. Shirvani-Farsani Z, Maloum Z, Bagheri-Hosseinabadi Z, Vilor-Tejedor N and Sadeghi I. DNA
methylation signature as a biomarker of major neuropsychiatric disorders. Journal of Psychiatric
Research. 2021;141:34-49.
30. Aref-Eshghi E, Kerkhof J, Pedro VP, Groupe DIF, Barat-Houari M, Ruiz-Pallares N, Andrau
JC, Lacombe D, Van-Gils J, Fergelot P, Dubourg C, Cormier-Daire V, Rondeau S, Lecoquierre F,
Saugier-Veber P, Nicolas G, Lesca G, Chatron N, Sanlaville D, Vitobello A, Faivre L, Thauvin-Robinet
C, Laumonnier F, Raynaud M, Alders M, Mannens M, Henneman P, Hennekam RC, Velasco G,
Francastel C, Ulveling D, Ciolfi A, Pizzi S, Tartaglia M, Heide S, Heron D, Mignot C, Keren B, Whalen
S, Afenjar A, Bienvenu T, Campeau PM, Rousseau J, Levy MA, Brick L, Kozenko M, Balci TB, Siu
VM, Stuart A, Kadour M, Masters J, Takano K, Kleefstra T, de Leeuw N, Field M, Shaw M, Gecz J,
Ainsworth PJ, Lin H, Rodenhiser DI, Friez MJ, Tedder M, Lee JA, DuPont BR, Stevenson RE, Skinner
SA, Schwartz CE, Genevieve D and Sadikovic B. Evaluation of DNA Methylation Episignatures for
Diagnosis and Phenotype Correlations in 42 Mendelian Neurodevelopmental Disorders. Am J
Hum Genet. 2020;106:356-370.
31. Xu X, Jin K, Bais AS, Zhu W, Yagi H, Feinstein TN, Nguyen PK, Criscione JD, Liu X, Beutner
G, Karunakaran KB, Rao KS, He H, Adams P, Kuo CK, Kostka D, Pryhuber GS, Shiva S, Ganapathiraju
MK, Porter GA, Lin J-HI, Aronow B and Lo CW. Uncompensated mitochondrial oxidative stress
underlies heart failure in an iPSC-derived model of congenital heart disease. Cell Stem Cell. 2022.
32. Nicholas AK, Swanson EA, Cox JJ, Karbani G, Malik S, Springell K, Hampshire D, Ahmed M,
Bond J and Di Benedetto D. The molecular landscape of ASPM mutations in primary
microcephaly. Journal of medical genetics. 2009;46:249-253.
33. Nicholas AK, Khurshid M, Désir J, Carvalho OP, Cox JJ, Thornton G, Kausar R, Ansar M,
Ahmad W and Verloes A. WDR62 is associated with the spindle pole and is mutated in human
microcephaly. Nature genetics. 2010;42:1010-1014.
34. Rodenas-Ruano A, Chávez AE, Cossio MJ, Castillo PE and Zukin RS. REST-dependent
epigenetic remodeling promotes the developmental switch in synaptic NMDA receptors. Nature
neuroscience. 2012;15:1382-1390.
35. Bray NJ, Preece A, Williams NM, Moskvina V, Buckland PR, Owen MJ and O'Donovan MC.
Haplotypes at the dystrobrevin binding protein 1 (DTNBP1) gene locus mediate risk for
schizophrenia through reduced DTNBP1 expression. Human molecular genetics. 2005;14:1947-
1954.
36. Lang F, Strutz‐Seebohm N, Seebohm G and Lang UE. Significance of SGK1 in the
regulation of neuronal function. The Journal of physiology. 2010;588:3349-3354.
37. Ma YL, Tsai MC, Hsu WL and Lee EH. SGK protein kinase facilitates the expression of long-
term potentiation in hippocampal neurons. Learn Mem. 2006;13:114-8.
38. Saura CA and Valero J. The role of CREB signaling in Alzheimer's disease and other
cognitive disorders. Rev Neurosci. 2011;22:153-69.
39. Gau D, Lemberger T, von Gall C, Kretz O, Le Minh N, Gass P, Schmid W, Schibler U, Korf
HW and Schutz G. Phosphorylation of CREB Ser142 regulates light-induced phase shifts of the
circadian clock. Neuron. 2002;34:245-53.
29
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
40. Stackhouse TL and Mishra A. Neurovascular Coupling in Development and Disease: Focus
on Astrocytes. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2021;9:702832.
41. Donofrio M, Bremer Y, Schieken R, Gennings C, Morton L, Eidem B, Cetta F, Falkensammer
C, Huhta J and Kleinman C. Autoregulation of cerebral blood flow in fetuses with congenital heart
disease: the brain sparing effect. Pediatric cardiology. 2003;24:436-443.
42. Kinnear C, Haranal M, Shannon P, Jaeggi E, Chitayat D and Mital S. Abnormal fetal cerebral
and vascular development in hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Prenat Diagn. 2019;39:38-44.
43. Riccio A, Alvania RS, Lonze BE, Ramanan N, Kim T, Huang Y, Dawson TM, Snyder SH and
Ginty DD. A nitric oxide signaling pathway controls CREB-mediated gene expression in neurons.
Mol Cell. 2006;21:283-94.
44. Jiang J, Chan Y-S, Loh Y-H, Cai J, Tong G-Q, Lim C-A, Robson P, Zhong S and Ng H-H. A core
Klf circuitry regulates self-renewal of embryonic stem cells. Nature cell biology. 2008;10:353-360.
45. Lavallée G, Andelfinger G, Nadeau M, Lefebvre C, Nemer G, Horb ME and Nemer M. The
Kruppel‐like transcription factor KLF13 is a novel regulator of heart development. The EMBO
journal. 2006;25:5201-5213.
46. Ávila-Mendoza J, Subramani A and Denver RJ. Krüppel-like factors 9 and 13 block axon
growth by transcriptional repression of key components of the cAMP signaling pathway. Frontiers
in Molecular Neuroscience. 2020:217.
47. Williams K, Christensen J, Pedersen MT, Johansen JV, Cloos PA, Rappsilber J and Helin K.
TET1 and hydroxymethylcytosine in transcription and DNA methylation fidelity. Nature.
2011;473:343-348.
48. Bhat V, Girimaji SC, Mohan G, Arvinda HR, Singhmar P, Duvvari MR and Kumar A.
Mutations in WDR62, encoding a centrosomal and nuclear protein, in Indian primary
microcephaly families with cortical malformations. Clin Genet. 2011;80:532-40.
49. Gorski JA, Talley T, Qiu M, Puelles L, Rubenstein JL and Jones KR. Cortical excitatory
neurons and glia, but not GABAergic neurons, are produced in the Emx1-expressing lineage.
Journal of Neuroscience. 2002;22:6309-6314.
50. Zhang Y, Tian Y, Yu J-J, He J, Luo J, Zhang S, Tang C-E and Tao Y-m. Overexpression of
WDR62 is associated with centrosome amplification in human ovarian cancer. Journal of ovarian
research. 2013;6:1-6.
51. Sadhwani A, Wypij D, Rofeberg V, Gholipour A, Mittleman M, Rohde J, Velasco-Annis C,
Calderon J, Friedman KG, Tworetzky W, Grant PE, Soul JS, Warfield SK, Newburger JW, Ortinau
CM and Rollins CK. Fetal Brain Volume Predicts Neurodevelopment in Congenital Heart Disease.
Circulation. 2022;145:1108-1119.
52. Limperopoulos C, Tworetzky W, McElhinney DB, Newburger JW, Brown DW, Robertson
RL, Jr., Guizard N, McGrath E, Geva J, Annese D, Dunbar-Masterson C, Trainor B, Laussen PC and
du Plessis AJ. Brain volume and metabolism in fetuses with congenital heart disease: evaluation
with quantitative magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy. Circulation. 2010;121:26-33.
53. Sun L, Macgowan CK, Sled JG, Yoo SJ, Manlhiot C, Porayette P, Grosse-Wortmann L, Jaeggi
E, McCrindle BW, Kingdom J, Hickey E, Miller S and Seed M. Reduced fetal cerebral oxygen
consumption is associated with smaller brain size in fetuses with congenital heart disease.
Circulation. 2015;131:1313-23.
54. Adams PS, Zahid M, Khalifa O, Feingold B and Lo CW. Low Nasal NO in Congenital Heart
Disease With Systemic Right Ventricle and Postcardiac Transplantation. J Am Heart Assoc. 2017;6.
30
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
55. Schmithorst VJ, Adams PS, Badaly D, Lee VK, Wallace J, Beluk N, Votava-Smith JK,
Weinberg JG, Beers SR, Detterich J, Wood JC, Lo CW and Panigrahy A. Impaired Neurovascular
Function Underlies Poor Neurocognitive Outcomes and Is Associated with Nitric Oxide
Bioavailability in Congenital Heart Disease. Metabolites. 2022;12.
56. Rollins CK, Ortinau CM, Stopp C, Friedman KG, Tworetzky W, Gagoski B, Velasco-Annis C,
Afacan O, Vasung L, Beaute JI, Rofeberg V, Estroff JA, Grant PE, Soul JS, Yang E, Wypij D, Gholipour
A, Warfield SK and Newburger JW. Regional Brain Growth Trajectories in Fetuses with Congenital
Heart Disease. Ann Neurol. 2021;89:143-157.
57. Qureshi IA, Gokhan S and Mehler MF. REST and CoREST are transcriptional and epigenetic
regulators of seminal neural fate decisions. Cell Cycle. 2010;9:4477-86.
58. Ballas N, Grunseich C, Lu DD, Speh JC and Mandel G. REST and its corepressors mediate
plasticity of neuronal gene chromatin throughout neurogenesis. Cell. 2005;121:645-657.
59. Gao Z, Ure K, Ding P, Nashaat M, Yuan L, Ma J, Hammer RE and Hsieh J. The master
negative regulator REST/NRSF controls adult neurogenesis by restraining the neurogenic
program in quiescent stem cells. Journal of Neuroscience. 2011;31:9772-9786.
60. Huang Y, Myers SJ and Dingledine R. Transcriptional repression by REST: recruitment of
Sin3A and histone deacetylase to neuronal genes. Nature neuroscience. 1999;2:867-872.
61. Tang T, Zhang Y, Wang Y, Cai Z, Lu Z, Li L, Huang R, Hagelkruys A, Matthias P and Zhang H.
HDAC1 and HDAC2 regulate intermediate progenitor positioning to safeguard neocortical
development. Neuron. 2019;101:1117-1133. e5.
62. Yang YJ, Baltus AE, Mathew RS, Murphy EA, Evrony GD, Gonzalez DM, Wang EP, Marshall-
Walker CA, Barry BJ and Murn J. Microcephaly gene links trithorax and REST/NRSF to control
neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation. Cell. 2012;151:1097-1112.
63. Chen J-F, Zhang Y, Wilde J, Hansen KC, Lai F and Niswander L. Microcephaly disease gene
Wdr62 regulates mitotic progression of embryonic neural stem cells and brain size. Nature
communications. 2014;5:1-13.
64. Marthiens V, Rujano MA, Pennetier C, Tessier S, Paul-Gilloteaux P and Basto R.
Centrosome amplification causes microcephaly. Nature cell biology. 2013;15:731-740.
65. Guo J, Otis JM, Higginbotham H, Monckton C, Cheng J, Asokan A, Mykytyn K, Caspary T,
Stuber GD and Anton ES. Primary Cilia Signaling Shapes the Development of Interneuronal
Connectivity. Dev Cell. 2017;42:286-300 e4.
66. Nanni L, Ming JE, Bocian M, Steinhaus K, Bianchi DW, de Die-Smulders C, Giannotti A,
Imaizumi K, Jones KL, Del Campo M, Martin RA, Meinecke P, Pierpont MEM, Robin NH, Young ID,
Roessler E and Muenke M. The Mutational Spectrum of the Sonic Hedgehog Gene in
Holoprosencephaly: SHH Mutations Cause a Significant Proportion of Autosomal Dominant
Holoprosencephaly. Human Molecular Genetics. 1999;8:2479-2488.
67. Koefoed K, Veland IR, Pedersen LB, Larsen LA and Christensen ST. Cilia and coordination
of signaling networks during heart development. Organogenesis. 2014;10:108-125.
68. Geddes GC, Stamm K, Mitchell M, Mussatto KA and Tomita-Mitchell A. Ciliopathy variant
burden and developmental delay in children with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Genetics in
Medicine. 2017;19:711-714.
69. Bagge CN, Henderson VW, Laursen HB, Adelborg K, Olsen M and Madsen NL. Risk of
Dementia in Adults With Congenital Heart Disease: Population-Based Cohort Study. Circulation.
2018;137:1912-1920.
31
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
70. Servili E, Trus M, Sajman J, Sherman E and Atlas D. Elevated basal transcription can
underlie timothy channel association with autism related disorders. Prog Neurobiol.
2020;191:101820.
71. Canzio D, Nwakeze CL, Horta A, Rajkumar SM, Coffey EL, Duffy EE, Duffié R, Monahan K,
o’Keeffe S and Simon MD. Antisense lncRNA transcription mediates DNA demethylation to drive
stochastic protocadherin α promoter choice. Cell. 2019;177:639-653. e15.
72. El Hajj N, Dittrich M and Haaf T. Epigenetic dysregulation of protocadherins in human
disease. Seminars in cell & developmental biology. 2017;69:172-182.
73. Strong E, Butcher DT, Singhania R, Mervis CB, Morris CA, De Carvalho D, Weksberg R and
Osborne LR. Symmetrical dose-dependent DNA-methylation profiles in children with deletion or
duplication of 7q11. 23. The American Journal of Human Genetics. 2015;97:216-227.
74. Amir RE, Van den Veyver IB, Wan M, Tran CQ, Francke U and Zoghbi HY. Rett syndrome is
caused by mutations in X-linked MECP2, encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2. Nature
genetics. 1999;23:185-188.
75. Salas-Armenteros I, Perez-Calero C, Bayona-Feliu A, Tumini E, Luna R and Aguilera A.
Human THO-Sin3A interaction reveals new mechanisms to prevent R-loops that cause genome
instability. EMBO J. 2017;36:3532-3547.
76. Grunseich C, Wang IX, Watts JA, Burdick JT, Guber RD, Zhu Z, Bruzel A, Lanman T, Chen K,
Schindler AB, Edwards N, Ray-Chaudhury A, Yao J, Lehky T, Piszczek G, Crain B, Fischbeck KH and
Cheung VG. Senataxin Mutation Reveals How R-Loops Promote Transcription by Blocking DNA
Methylation at Gene Promoters. Mol Cell. 2018;69:426-437 e7.
77. Chater-Diehl E, Goodman SJ, Cytrynbaum C, Turinsky AL, Choufani S and Weksberg R.
Anatomy of DNA methylation signatures: Emerging insights and applications. Am J Hum Genet.
2021;108:1359-1366.
78. Shirvani-Farsani Z, Maloum Z, Bagheri-Hosseinabadi Z, Vilor-Tejedor N and Sadeghi I. DNA
methylation signature as a biomarker of major neuropsychiatric disorders. J Psychiatr Res.
2021;141:34-49.
79. Coenen-van der Spek J, Relator R, Kerkhof J, McConkey H, Levy MA, Tedder ML, Louie RJ,
Fletcher RS, Moore HW, Childers A, Farrelly ER, Champaigne NL, Lyons MJ, Everman DB, Rogers
RC, Skinner SA, Renck A, Matalon DR, Dills SK, Monteleone B, Demirdas S, Dingemans AJM,
Donker Kaat L, Kolk SM, Pfundt R, Rump P, Sadikovic B, Kleefstra T and Butler KM. DNA
methylation episignature for Witteveen-Kolk syndrome due to SIN3A haploinsufficiency. Genet
Med. 2023;25:63-75.
80. Co-Vu J, Lopez-Colon D, Vyas HV, Weiner N and DeGroff C. Maternal hyperoxygenation:
A potential therapy for congenital heart disease in the fetuses? A systematic review of the current
literature. Echocardiography. 2017;34:1822-1833.
81. Edwards LA, Lara DA, Sanz Cortes M, Hunter JV, Andreas S, Nguyen MJ, Schoppe LJ, Zhang
J, Smith EM, Maskatia SA, Sexson-Tejtel SK, Lopez KN, Lawrence EJ, Wang Y, Challman M, Ayres
NA, Altman CA, Aagaard K, Becker JA and Morris SA. Chronic Maternal Hyperoxygenation and
Effect on Cerebral and Placental Vasoregulation and Neurodevelopment in Fetuses with Left
Heart Hypoplasia. Fetal Diagn Ther. 2019;46:45-57.
82. Hu C, Liu X, Zeng Y, Liu J and Wu F. DNA methyltransferase inhibitors combination therapy
for the treatment of solid tumor: mechanism and clinical application. Clin Epigenetics.
2021;13:166.
32
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
83. Gabriel GC, Devine W, Redel BK, Whitworth KM, Samuel M, Spate LD, Cecil RF, Prather RS,
Wu Y and Wells KD. Cardiovascular Development and Congenital Heart Disease Modeling in the
Pig. Journal of the American Heart Association. 2021;10:e021631.
33
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure Legends
Figure 1. Ohiam/m mice display microcephaly with brain abnormalities.
A-D. E16.5 wildtype (A) and Ohiam/m mutant mouse brains exhibiting moderate (B) and severe
(C) forebrain hypoplasia, with the severe mutant also showing holoprosencephaly. The
distribution of brain phenotype severity in Ohiam/m mice is shown in the pie chart (D).
E-J. Episcopic confocal imaging of the head shown in the sagittal and coronal plane of a wildtype
(+/+) (E,H) and two Ohiam/m mice, one with mild (B,F) and the other with severe (G,J) forebrain
hypoplasia. Note hypoplastic (F) or absent (G) olfactory bulb, thin cortex (F,G), hypoplastic corpus
callosum (I), and holoprosencephaly (J).
K-N. Cresyl violet stained sections from control (K), and two Ohia mutants with mild (L) vs. severe
(M) forebrain hypoplasia. Quantification of 5 Ohia mutants and 5 littermate controls showed
reduced cortical thickness (N). p=0.003, 2-tailed unpaired t-test.
Cx, cortex; OB, olfactory bulb; Cb, cerebellum; CC, corpus callosum; Lat V, lateral ventricle; Holo,
holoprosencephaly. Scale bars = 0.5mm.
Figure 2. Impaired Cortical Plate Formation with Loss of Tbr2+ Intermediate Progenitors in
Ohiam/m Mutant Brain
A-L. Sections of the brain of E16.5 control (A-D) and Ohiam/m mutant mice with mild (E-H) or
severe (I-L) forebrain hypoplasia were stained with cresyl violet (A,E,I) to delineate the brain
tissue architecture. Antibody staining was conducted for markers of apical progenitor cells (Pax6,
B,F,J), intermediate progenitor cells (Tbr2 in C,G,K), and merged image showing both markers
(D,H,L).
M-T. Section of the cortical plate of E16.5 wildtype (M-P) and mutant (Q-T) mouse brain was
stained with antibodies to Satb2, marker for cortical layers II-IV (M,Q), Ctip2 for cortical layers V-
VI (N,R), and Tbr1 (O,S) for cortical layer VI, and merged image showing all three markers (P,T).
U-Y. Quantification of number of cells stained by Pax6 (U), Tbr2 (V), Ctip2 (W), Tbr1 (X), and
Satb2 (Y) in the brain of 5 Ohiam/m mutant and 5 littermate controls. P-values calculated by 2-
tailed, unpaired t-test.
Scale bars in A-L indicate 500µm. Scale bars in M-T indicate 100µm.
Figure 3. Neural Progenitors in the Cortical Plate Show Mitotic Block With Increase in
Cell Death and Possible Role for Multipolar Spindles Indicated by MEF Analysis
A-H. Comparison of the cortex of the brain from E14.5 Ohiam/m mutant (D-F) vs. wildtype littermate
control embryos (A-C) showed more pH3 and TUNEL staining (G) in the ventricular (VZ) and
34
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
subventricular (SVC) zones in the mutants. A decrease was also noted in the proportion of mitotic
cells in anaphase-telophase (H). P-value obtained using 2-way, unpaired t-test (n=3, Ohiam/m
mutants, n=3 littermate controls).
I-N. MEFs generated from wildtype (I-K) and Ohiam/m mutant embryos (L-N) were immunostained
with a-tubulin and g-tubulin. Mitotic cells in the mutant MEFs showed increase in multipolar
spindles (quantification in panel O). MEFs were generated from 3 Ohiam/m and 3 littermate control
embryos, with >500 cells analyzed per embryo derived MEF. P-value calculated by 2-way,
unpaired t-test.
P-R. Ohiam/m MEFs showed reduction in the proportion of mitotic cells in anaphase/telophase (P)
and an increase in lagging chromosomes during anaphase (Q,R) P-value obtained using 2-way,
unpaired t-test.
CP, cortical plate; IZ, intermediate zone; SVZ, subventricular zone; VZ, ventricular zone; P/M,
prophase/metaphase; A/T, anaphase/telophase. Scale bars = 100µm.
Figure 4. Transcriptome Profiling Shows Dysregulated Neurodevelopment in Ohiam/m
Mutants
Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) recovered from RNAseq analysis of E14.5 Ohia mutant
brain were analyzed for pathway enrichment using Metascape (A), Ingenuity Pathway Analysis
(IPA) for upstream regulators of downstream neurodevelopmental outcomes (B, red for
upregulated, green for downregulated), IPA canonical pathway (C), and IPA curated CREB
signaling pathway (D), with purple outline indicating genes found to be differentially expressed,
with green fill for downregulated and red fill for upregulated DEGs. (E) Disease terms recovered
from ToppGene analysis of recovered DEGs.
Figure 5. Dysregulated Expression of Genes Associated with Neurovascular Coupling.
Modified IPA curated neurovascular coupling pathway illustrating dysregulated expression of
genes involved in neurovascular coupling. DEGs identified in Ohia brain highlighted in purple
outline.
Figure 6. Sap130 Chromatin Immunoprecipitation Sequencing Analysis of Mouse Brain
and Examination of Cilia in the Ohia Brain Tissue
ChIP-seq analysis of wildtype E14.5 mouse embryo brain was conducted using Sap130
antibody.
A. Sap130 occupancy in the 5’ upstream promoter region of selected genes is shown in panel
A, including Rest and Sin3A, and two genes associated with microcephaly (Aspm, Wdr62).
35
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
B-E. Pathways in GO Biological Process (B) and Cellular Components (C), as well as Human
Phenotype (D), and Disease (E) terms recovered from ToppGene gene enrichment analysis of
Sap130 ChIPseq target genes.
F. Motif enrichment analysis of the Sap130 ChIPseq target genes identified putative Sap130 DNA
binding sequences.
G-I. Cilia visualization in sections of wildtype (G) and Ohiam/m mutant brain tissue (H)
immunostained with Arl13b (cilia, green), g-tub (centrosome, red) and DAPI. Quantification
showed reduction of cilia in the mutant brain (I, n=3 Ohia mutant and 4 littermate controls). P
value determined by 2-tailed, unpaired t-test.
Figure 7. Molecular profiling of Ohiam/m brain tissue with integration of genome-wide
methylome with RNAseq and Sap130 ChIPseq analyses.
A. Quantification of methyl-CpGs in promoter region of wildtype (n=3, C1, C2, C3) and Ohiam/m
brain (n=3, S1, S2, S3) tissue revealed reduced DNA methylation in the Ohiam/m brain tissue.
B,C. Antibody staining for mCpG in iPSC cardiomyocytes showed less staining in the HLHS
patient vs. control iPSC-CM (B). This was confirmed with quantification shown in scatter plot
(mean±SEM) for n=200 cells from two control subjects and n=409 cells from four HLHS subjects
(C). P-value determined by Mann-Whitney test.
D. Increased methylation of two CpG sites in two DMRS found in Klf17 (denoted by red asterisk)
in the Ohiam/m brain tissue.
E,F. Venn diagrams show two-way intersection of downregulated DEGs with genes associated
with DMR (E) and three-way intersection of down regulated DEGs, genes associated with DMR,
and genes recovered from Sap130 ChiPseq (F).
G, H. ToppGene enrichment analysis for Mouse Phenotypes recovered from the two-way (G) or
three-way (H) intersection of the downregulated DEGS with genes associated with DMRs or with
DMRs and Sap130 ChIP target genes.
I. Circle plot showing significant Disease association identified by the ToppGene enrichment
analysis of the RNAseq recovered down regulated DEGs (first column), genes shared between
the down regulated DEGs and DMR associated genes (second column) and the down regulated
DEGs, DMR associated genes, and ChIPseq target genes (third column). All three analyses
yielded the same Diseases, but with somewhat different p-value ranking as shown by the color
coding in the circle plot.
36
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 8. Emx1-cre Sap130f/- Mice Show Microcephaly With Transcriptome Profiling
Showing Abnormal Neurodevelopment
A. Wildtype newborn control (left) and Emx1-cre Sap130f/- mutant (right) brains.
Scale bar = 500µm.
B. Brain/body weight ratio for newborn control and Emx1-cre Sap130f/- mice confirm brain
hypoplasia in the Emx1-cre Sap130f/- mice.
C. qPCR of Sap130 transcripts in E14.5 forebrain tissue from 4 control and 4 Emx1-cre Sap130f/-
mice showed decrease in Sap130 transcripts, demonstrating efficacy of the Emx1-Cre mediated
Sap130 deletion.
D. qPCR of Wdr62 transcripts in E14.5 forebrain tissue from 4 control and 4 Emx1-cre Sap130f/-
mice showed increased transcript expression, indicating possible centrosome amplification.
E-I. IPA and ToppGene analysis of DEGs from RNAseq of E14.5 forebrain tissue from Emx1-cre
Sap130f/- vs. control mice. Shown are the results obtained with IPA Canonical Pathway (E), IPA
Gene Set (G) for hallmark centrosome, hypoxia, and mitotic spindle genes, and ToppGene
analysis for Disease (H) and Mouse Phenotype (I).
Figure 9. Brain and Behavioral Analysis of Emx1-cre Sap130f/- and Pcdha9m/m Adult Mice
A-F. Adult brain MRI of wildtype (A), and Emx1-cre;Sap130f/- adult mice (B). Note the marked
reduction in size of the cortex. Quantitative analysis showed significant reduction in brain volumes
associated with the corpus callous (C), the cerebral cortex (D), the hippocampus (E), and
forebrain (F).
G,H. Adult brain MRI of wildtype (A), and Pcdha9m/m adult mice (B). No change was observed in
anatomical structure of the Pcdha9m/m mouse brain.
I-N. Neurobehavioral testing was conducted using three tests: Morris water maze (I,J), cued fear
conditioning (K,L), and three chamber sociability test (M,N). In both Pcdha9m/m female mice and
Emx1-cre:Sap130f/- mice, significant deficits were observed for fear conditioning and sociability,
but no difference was observed in the Morris water maze. Similar analysis of Pcdha9m/m male
mice showed no change relative to wildtype control male mice (Supplemental Figure S7). Morris
water maze analyzed by 2-way repeated measures ANOVA, fear conditioning analyzed by 2-way
repeated measures ANOVA, and sociability tested analyzed by two-way and three-way ANOVA.
37
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figures
Figure 1. Ohiam/m mice display microcephaly with brain abnormalities.
A-D. E16.5 wildtype (A) and Ohiam/m mutant mouse brains exhibiting moderate (B) and severe
(C) forebrain hypoplasia, with the severe mutant also showing holoprosencephaly. The
distribution of brain phenotype severity in Ohiam/m mice is shown in the pie chart (D).
E-J. Episcopic confocal imaging of the head shown in the sagittal and coronal plane of a wildtype
(+/+) (E,H) and two Ohiam/m mice, one with mild (B,F) and the other with severe (G,J) forebrain
hypoplasia. Note hypoplastic (F) or absent (G) olfactory bulb, thin cortex (F,G), hypoplastic corpus
callosum (I), and holoprosencephaly (J).
38
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
K-N. Cresyl violet stained sections from control (K), and two Ohia mutants with mild (L) vs. severe
(M) forebrain hypoplasia. Quantification of 5 Ohia mutants and 5 littermate controls showed
reduced cortical thickness (N). p=0.003, 2-tailed unpaired t-test.
Cx, cortex; OB, olfactory bulb; Cb, cerebellum; CC, corpus callosum; Lat V, lateral ventricle; Holo,
holoprosencephaly. Scale bars = 0.5mm.
39
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 2. Impaired Cortical Plate Formation with Loss of Tbr2+ Intermediate Progenitors in
Ohiam/m Mutant Brain
A-L. Sections of the brain of E16.5 control (A-D) and Ohiam/m mutant mice with mild (E-H) or
severe (I-L) forebrain hypoplasia were stained with cresyl violet (A,E,I) to delineate the brain
tissue architecture. Antibody staining was conducted for markers of apical progenitor cells (Pax6,
B,F,J), intermediate progenitor cells (Tbr2 in C,G,K), and merged image showing both markers
(D,H,L).
40
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
M-T. Section of the cortical plate of E16.5 wildtype (M-P) and mutant (Q-T) mouse brain was
stained with antibodies to Satb2, marker for cortical layers II-IV (M,Q), Ctip2 for cortical layers V-
VI (N,R), and Tbr1 (O,S) for cortical layer VI, and merged image showing all three markers (P,T).
U-Y. Quantification of number of cells stained by Pax6 (U), Tbr2 (V), Ctip2 (W), Tbr1 (X), and
Satb2 (Y) in the brain of 5 Ohiam/m mutant and 5 littermate controls. P-values calculated by 2-
tailed, unpaired t-test.
Scale bars in A-L indicate 500µm. Scale bars in M-T indicate 100µm.
41
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 3. Neural Progenitors in the Cortical Plate Show Mitotic Block With Increase in
Cell Death and Possible Role for Multipolar Spindles Indicated by MEF Analysis
A-H. Comparison of the cortex of the brain from E14.5 Ohiam/m mutant (D-F) vs. wildtype littermate
control embryos (A-C) showed more pH3 and TUNEL staining (G) in the ventricular (VZ) and
subventricular (SVC) zones in the mutants. A decrease was also noted in the proportion of mitotic
cells in anaphase-telophase (H). P-value obtained using 2-way, unpaired t-test (n=3, Ohiam/m
mutants, n=3 littermate controls).
I-N. MEFs generated from wildtype (I-K) and Ohiam/m mutant embryos (L-N) were immunostained
with a-tubulin and g-tubulin. Mitotic cells in the mutant MEFs showed increase in multipolar
spindles (quantification in panel O). MEFs were generated from 3 Ohiam/m and 3 littermate control
42
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
embryos, with >500 cells analyzed per embryo derived MEF. P-value calculated by 2-way,
unpaired t-test.
P-R. Ohiam/m MEFs showed reduction in the proportion of mitotic cells in anaphase/telophase (P)
and an increase in lagging chromosomes during anaphase (Q,R) P-value obtained using 2-way,
unpaired t-test.
CP, cortical plate; IZ, intermediate zone; SVZ, subventricular zone; VZ, ventricular zone; P/M,
prophase/metaphase; A/T, anaphase/telophase. Scale bars = 100µm.
43
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 4. Transcriptome Profiling Shows Dysregulated Neurodevelopment in Ohiam/m
Mutants
Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) recovered from RNAseq analysis of E14.5 Ohia mutant
brain were analyzed for pathway enrichment using Metascape (A), Ingenuity Pathway Analysis
(IPA) for upstream regulators of downstream neurodevelopmental outcomes (B, red for
upregulated, green for downregulated), IPA canonical pathway (C), and IPA curated CREB
signaling pathway (D), with purple outline indicating genes found to be differentially expressed,
with green fill for downregulated and red fill for upregulated DEGs. (E) Disease terms recovered
from ToppGene analysis of recovered DEGs.
44
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 5. Dysregulated Expression of Genes Associated with Neurovascular Coupling.
Modified IPA curated neurovascular coupling pathway illustrating dysregulated expression of
genes involved in neurovascular coupling. DEGs identified in Ohia brain highlighted in purple
outline.
45
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 6. Sap130 Chromatin Immunoprecipitation Sequencing Analysis of Mouse Brain
and Examination of Cilia in the Ohia Brain Tissue
ChIP-seq analysis of wildtype E14.5 mouse embryo brain was conducted using Sap130
antibody.
A. Sap130 occupancy in the 5’ upstream promoter region of selected genes is shown in panel
A, including Rest and Sin3A, and two genes associated with microcephaly (Aspm, Wdr62).
46
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
B-E. Pathways in GO Biological Process (B) and Cellular Components (C), as well as Human
Phenotype (D), and Disease (E) terms recovered from ToppGene gene enrichment analysis of
Sap130 ChIPseq target genes.
F. Motif enrichment analysis of the Sap130 ChIPseq target genes identified putative Sap130 DNA
binding sequences.
G-I. Cilia visualization in sections of wildtype (G) and Ohiam/m mutant brain tissue (H)
immunostained with Arl13b (cilia, green), g-tub (centrosome, red) and DAPI. Quantification
showed reduction of cilia in the mutant brain (I, n=3 Ohia mutant and 4 littermate controls). P
value determined by 2-tailed, unpaired t-test.
47
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
A B C E
p<2e-16
DEG Down DMR
D
F
Klf13
CpG DEG Down DMR
CREs
DMRs * *
~1kb ~200bp
DMR
Probes
Control
Control
Control
Mutant
Mutant
Mutant
Sap130 ChIP
DMR/DEG DMR/DEG/ChIP
G H I -log(e) DEG
Abnormal synaptic transmission Abnormal synaptic transmission 0.00 p-Value 16.00 DEG DMR
DEG DMR ChIP
Abnormal motor coordination Abnormal motor coordination
Schizophrenia
Seizures Abnormal associative learning
Bipolar disorder
Abnormal social interaction Abnormal social interaction Intellectual disability
Abnormal involuntary movement Abnormal locomotor coordination Epilepsy
Impaired coordination Abnormal spatial memory Impaired cognition
Abnormal associative learning Abnormal learning/memory Developmental delay
Abnormal locomotor activation Abnormal cognition Seizures
Abnormal gait Hyperactivity Autism
6 Abnormal brain morphology Impaired learning Neurodevelopmental disorders
0 2 -lo4 g(p-value6 ) 8 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Memory impairment
-log(p-value)
Figure 7. Molecular profiling of Ohiam/m brain tissue with integration of genome-wide
methylome with RNAseq and Sap130 ChIPseq analyses.
A. Quantification of methyl-CpGs in promoter region of wildtype (n=3, C1, C2, C3) and Ohiam/m
brain (n=3, S1, S2, S3) tissue revealed reduced DNA methylation in the Ohiam/m brain tissue.
B,C. Antibody staining for mCpG in iPSC cardiomyocytes showed less staining in the HLHS
patient vs. control iPSC-CM (B). This was confirmed with quantification shown in scatter plot
(mean±SEM) for n=200 cells from two control subjects and n=409 cells from four HLHS subjects
(C). P-value determined by Mann-Whitney test.
D. Increased methylation of two CpG sites in two DMRS found in Klf17 (denoted by red asterisk)
in the Ohiam/m brain tissue.
E,F. Venn diagrams show two-way intersection of downregulated DEGs with genes associated
with DMR (E) and three-way intersection of down regulated DEGs, genes associated with DMR,
and genes recovered from Sap130 ChiPseq (F).
48
epytonehp
esuoM
epytonehp
esuoM
level
noitalyhtem
AND
)ytisnetni
cm5(
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
G, H. ToppGene enrichment analysis for Mouse Phenotypes recovered from the two-way (G) or
three-way (H) intersection of the downregulated DEGS with genes associated with DMRs or with
DMRs and Sap130 ChIP target genes.
I. Circle plot showing significant Disease association identified by the ToppGene enrichment
analysis of the RNAseq recovered down regulated DEGs (first column), genes shared between
the down regulated DEGs and DMR associated genes (second column) and the down regulated
DEGs, DMR associated genes, and ChIPseq target genes (third column). All three analyses
yielded the same Diseases, but with somewhat different p-value ranking as shown by the color
coding in the circle plot.
49
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 8. Emx1-cre Sap130f/- Mice Show Microcephaly With Transcriptome Profiling
Showing Abnormal Neurodevelopment
A. Wildtype newborn control (left) and Emx1-cre Sap130f/- mutant (right) brains.
Scale bar = 500µm.
B. Brain/body weight ratio for newborn control and Emx1-cre Sap130f/- mice confirm brain
hypoplasia in the Emx1-cre Sap130f/- mice.
C. qPCR of Sap130 transcripts in E14.5 forebrain tissue from 4 control and 4 Emx1-cre Sap130f/-
mice showed decrease in Sap130 transcripts, demonstrating efficacy of the Emx1-Cre mediated
Sap130 deletion.
50
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
D. qPCR of Wdr62 transcripts in E14.5 forebrain tissue from 4 control and 4 Emx1-cre Sap130f/-
mice showed increased transcript expression, indicating possible centrosome amplification.
E-I. IPA and ToppGene analysis of DEGs from RNAseq of E14.5 forebrain tissue from Emx1-cre
Sap130f/- vs. control mice. Shown are the results obtained with IPA Canonical Pathway (E), IPA
Gene Set (G) for hallmark centrosome, hypoxia, and mitotic spindle genes, and ToppGene
analysis for Disease (H) and Mouse Phenotype (I).
51
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
Figure 9. Brain and Behavioral Analysis of Emx1-cre Sap130f/- and Pcdha9m/m Adult Mice
52
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
A-F. Adult brain MRI of wildtype (A), and Emx1-cre;Sap130f/- adult mice (B). Note the marked
reduction in size of the cortex. Quantitative analysis showed significant reduction in brain volumes
associated with the corpus callous (C), the cerebral cortex (D), the hippocampus (E), and
forebrain (F).
G,H. Adult brain MRI of wildtype (A), and Pcdha9m/m adult mice (B). No change was observed in
anatomical structure of the Pcdha9m/m mouse brain.
I-N. Neurobehavioral testing was conducted using three tests: Morris water maze (I,J), cued fear
conditioning (K,L), and three chamber sociability test (M,N). In both Pcdha9m/m female mice and
Emx1-cre:Sap130f/- mice, significant deficits were observed for fear conditioning and sociability,
but no difference was observed in the Morris water maze. Similar analysis of Pcdha9m/m male
mice showed no change relative to wildtype control male mice (Supplemental Figure S7). Morris
water maze analyzed by 2-way repeated measures ANOVA, fear conditioning analyzed by 2-way
repeated measures ANOVA, and sociability tested analyzed by two-way and three-way ANOVA.
53
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.11.05.565716; this version posted November 6, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
54
