ProceedingsonPrivacyEnhancingTechnologies;2022(4):204–228
Shikun Zhang, Yuanyuan Feng, Yaxing Yao, Lorrie Faith Cranor, and Norman Sadeh
How Usable Are iOS App Privacy Labels?
Abstract: Standardized privacy labels that succinctly these privacy policies and those who do often struggle
summarize those data practices that people are most tounderstandwhatthetextreallymeans.Privacypoli-
commonly concerned about offer the promise of pro- cies are not just long and difficult to read but also tend
viding users with more effective privacy notices than to be ambiguous or silent about important issues. To
full-length privacy policies. With their introduction by combat those usability issues, privacy researchers have
Apple in iOS 14 and Google’s recent adoption in its advocatedfortheadoptionofprivacy“nutritionlabels”
Play Store, mobile app privacy labels are for the first as a more succinct and effective way of informing peo-
time available at scale to users. We report the first in- ple about data collection and use practices, focusing on
depth interview study with 24 lay iPhone users to in- a small set of issues that particularly matter to most
vestigate their experiences, understanding, and percep- users [39].
tionsofApple’sprivacylabels.Weuncoveredmisunder- InFall2020,Appleannouncedthatwiththerelease
standingsofanddissatisfactionwiththeiOSprivacyla- of iOS 14, it would require privacy labels for mobile
bels that hinder their effectiveness, including confusing apps[11],reminiscentofideasintroducedandevaluated
structure,unfamiliarterms,anddisconnectionfromper- in research over a decade earlier [39–41]. Google took a
mission settings and controls. We identify areas where similarapproachandbeganrollingoutprivacylabelsto
app privacy labels might be improved and propose sug- the Play Store in 2022 [53].
gestions to address shortcomings to make them more As the Apple privacy labels began appearing in the
understandable, usable, and useful. app store, the new labels got mixed reviews in popu-
lar media. Reviewers praised the labels for making it
Keywords: usable privacy and security, interview study
much easier to compare privacy practices across apps
DOI10.56553/popets-2022-0106 but pointed out confusing language and jargon in the
Received2022-02-28;revised2022-06-15;accepted2022-06-16. privacy labels [13] as well as examples of apps that
appeared to have inaccurate or misleading labels [31].
Membersof theUnitedStatesCongress wrote toApple
1 Introduction CEO,TimCook,torequestthatlabelsbeimprovedand
reviewed for accuracy [17].
The availability of privacy labels for over 600,000
TheprevailinglegalframeworkforprivacyintheUnited
iOS apps [44] opened the door for researchers to study
States revolves around the concept of “Notice and
their effectiveness in the wild. Here we describe an in-
Choice,” which is based on the assumption that if con-
terview study with 24 iPhone users that investigates
sumers are provided with sufficient information about
lay users’ experience with, understanding of, and per-
thecollectionanduseoftheirdata,andiftheyaregiven
ceptions of iOS privacy labels.
meaningful choices, they will be able to manage their
This paper makes the following contributions:
privacy adequately.
Notice is typically addressed through the publica-
– Based on an in-depth qualitative interview study
tion of a privacy policy. In practice, users seldom read
with lay users, we show that the iOS privacy nutri-
tionlabelscurrentlyplayalimitedroleininforming
or empowering participants to manage their mobile
Shikun Zhang:CarnegieMellonUniversity,E-mail:
app privacy.
shikunz@cs.cmu.edu
– We identify areas of misunderstanding of and dis-
Yuanyuan Feng:UniversityofVermont,E-mail:
satisfaction with iOS privacy nutrition labels that
yuanyuan.feng@uvm.edu
Yaxing Yao:UniversityofMaryland,BaltimoreCounty,E- hinder their usability and effectiveness as privacy
mail:yaxingyao@umbc.edu notices.
Lorrie Faith Cranor:CarnegieMellonUniversity,E-mail: – Weidentifyareaswhereappprivacylabelsmightbe
lorrie@cmu.edu
improved and propose recommendations to address
Norman Sadeh:CarnegieMellonUniversity,E-mail:
the shortcomings we observed.
sadeh@cs.cmu.edu
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 205
2 Related Work Android app privacy label was more likely to be no-
ticed and remembered by users when displayed after
they downloaded an app than when displayed only in
We review related work on usable and effective privacy
the app store [6]. A recent study also indicates that
notices,noticesbeyondprivacypolicies,andprivacyla-
concise privacy notices displayed in a salient way sig-
bels for mobile apps.
nificantly increased user awareness of potentially risky
data practices [22].
Forth, relevance also impacts the effectiveness of
2.1 Usable and Effective Privacy Notices
privacy notices. Frequent exposure to lengthy privacy
policiescontainingtoomuchirrelevantinformationmay
TheprevailinglegalframeworkforprivacyintheU.S.is
cause privacy fatigue [15]. Therefore, privacy notices
built upon the concept of “Notice and Choice” derived
should highlight the most relevant information to their
from the Fair Information Practices Principles (FIPPs)
audience, particularly about unexpected, risky data
[63].Privacynoticesaredeclarationsofhowentitiescol-
practices [29, 54]. Also, contextually relevant privacy
lect, process, retain, and share personal data. Privacy
notices tend to more effective [23, 62]. “Just-in-time”
policies, which tend to be lengthy legal documents that
notices like mobile app permissions can provide users
people seldom read and barely understand [34, 46, 52],
contextual information when a specific data practice is
arethedominantformofprivacynotices.However,they
about to happen, allowing them to make informed pri-
are neither usable nor effective [18].
vacy decisions when choices are also provided [28, 62].
We summarize below the privacy literature on five
Finally, actionable information about control
key criteria for usable and effective privacy notices.
makesprivacynoticesmoreuseful.Thistypicallymeans
First, the readability of privacy notices is cru-
integrating privacy notices with privacy choices (e.g.,
cial for conveying information. Research has repeatedly
consent, controloptions),allowinguserstotakeactions
shown privacy policies are too long and often require
about their privacy based on the disclosures in the no-
unrealisticeducationlevelstoread[27,50,65],discour-
tices [18, 30, 62]. However, caution should be taken
agingpeoplefromreadingthem[27,46,50,65,73].Re-
when integrating notice and choice, since it may in-
searchalsoindicatesthatconciseprivacynoticeswritten
crease users’ cognitive burden in privacy decision mak-
inplainlanguagetendtobemoreeffectivethanlengthy
ing [15, 16].
privacy policies [22, 35].
This study examines the usability and effectiveness
Second, effective privacy notices should promote
of Apple’s privacy labels considering the above criteria.
comprehension by the intended audience. Privacy
policiesoftenuselegaljargonandvaguelanguagetoal-
low potential future uses of collected data [57], making
2.2 Notices Beyond Privacy Policies
itdifficultforanaveragepersontocomprehendthedis-
closed data practices [1, 14, 58, 72]. Vu and colleagues’
Legal and privacy researchers have long criticized the
eye-tracking study found that participants poorly com-
poor usability and ineffectiveness of privacy policies
prehended privacy policies even if they were written at
as privacy notices and have explored alternative ap-
their level of education [74]. Researchers have proposed
proaches [12, 18, 66]. Schaub and colleagues [61] pro-
non-textual privacy notices in addition to privacy poli-
posed a design space including four design dimensions
cies to convey privacy concepts, such as various indica-
(i.e., timing, channel, modality, control) that should be
tors[59]andicons[51],butusercomprehensionofthese
considered to design more usable and effective notices.
notices remains a challenge [37].
Some research has shown that shorter privacy no-
Third,saliencedeterminesthelikelihoodthatpeo-
tices tend to be more effective in terms of readability
ple will actually find and pay attention to privacy no-
and comprehension [49] and standardized privacy no-
tices. Effective privacy notices should be prominently
ticesaremorereadableandbetterfacilitatecomparisons
displayed and easy to access both initially and when
of privacy practices [2]. Gluck et al.’s study, however,
users want to revisit them. An eye-tracking experiment
foundthatextremeshorteningofprivacynoticesdidnot
found that participants were more likely to read and
improve readers’ awareness of disclosed privacy prac-
understand privacy policy information when it was dis-
tices, suggesting a potential length limit for short no-
played by default rather than accessible only by follow-
ticestobeeffective[35]. Layered privacy notices,which
ing a link [69]. Another study found that a prototype
typically include a standardized short notice and a full
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 206
privacy policy [18, 47] have been proposed as a way to ing about how mobile apps handle data collected via
combinethestrengthsofdifferentapproaches:theread- their devices can be difficult. Not too long ago, the pri-
ability of short notices, the comparability of standard- vacy notices for many mobile apps were merely links
ized notices, and the full details of traditional privacy to their privacy policies hosted on websites. Not sur-
policies. prisingly, a study showed that small displays on mobile
“Privacy nutrition labels” or “privacy labels” offer devices worsen the already poor user comprehension of
a standardized and succinct way of informing people privacy policies [64].
about data collection and use practices, focusing on Currently,apppermissionsmanagementsystemson
a small set of issues that particularly matter to most Android and iOS mobile platforms often serve as a de
users. Kelley and colleagues’ early studies suggested facto privacy notice mechanism. Under the dominant
that privacy labels allow readers to find privacy-related “ask on first use” (AOFU) model of app permissions,
information quicker and more accurately [39, 40]. More when a mobile app requests to access certain data or
recently, privacy labels for Internet of Things (IoT) de- resources (e.g., location, microphone) on a mobile de-
vices have been proposed to assist consumers in con- vice for the first time, the mobile platform will prompt
sidering privacy and security when purchasing such de- the user with a pop-up permission choice, which can
vices [24, 25]. However, the effectiveness of privacy la- include a concise privacy notice provided by the app
bels in real-world situations has not yet been investi- developers. AOFU, as an integrated privacy notice and
gated. choice, allows mobile app users to make privacy deci-
Tothatend,thisstudyaimstoexploretheusability sions in the actual context of use. It offloads the initial
and effectiveness of Apple’s privacy labels for apps, one privacydecisionmakingatappinstallationbutcansig-
of the first real-world implementations of the privacy nificantly increase user burden later [45, 67, 75]. Also,
nutrition label approach. AOFU does not assist users in determining whether or
Rather than focusing on notice presentation, some not to download a new app based on its privacy risks.
research leverages technical approaches, including ma- Apple’s app privacy labels are standardized short-
chine learning, to help users navigate the complex pri- form privacy notices. Kelley et al. designed short-form
vacy notice and choice landscape. For example, natu- privacy nutrition labels for Android apps and demon-
ral language processing techniques can be used to ex- strated in a lab experiment that participants who were
tractkeyinformationfromprivacypolicies[8,55,70,76] shown the labels in a modified version of the app store
to help users understand notices and configure choices. would often take label information into account when
Also, privacy assistants have been proposed to reduce choosing which app to download [41]. On the other
users’ burden in managing data privacy according to hand, a multi-stakeholder effort to standardize termi-
their diverse individual privacy preferences [19, 20, 38, nology for mobile app labels resulted in a set of terms
45]. with definitions that were not precise enough to enable
consistent application [7]. Furthermore, Balebako et al.
observed that a prototype Android app privacy label
2.3 Privacy Labels for Mobile Apps based on these standard terms was rarely noticed by
userswhenplacedasanimageintheappstore[6],indi-
Today’s mobile devices are often equipped with sensors cating that labels may inherit the same discoverability
and services capable of collecting various data (e.g., problem as traditional privacy notices.
location, contacts, photos, health), which may reveal InarecentstudyexaminingthecreationsideofAp-
many sensitive aspects of mobile users’ lives. A Pew ple’s privacy labels, Li and colleagues found that creat-
Research survey reported that 54% of mobile app users ing labels was nontrivial and error-prone for app devel-
haveavoidedanappand30%havedecidednottoinstall opers[43],indicatingroomforimprovedclarity,validity,
an app due to personal data privacy concerns, and 19% and consistency of labels. Other recent work proposes
of cellphone users have turned off location tracking on tools designed to help developers create more accurate
theirdevices[9].Thesesurveyresultssuggestthatmany labels [32] and in-app privacy notices [42].
people are at least somewhat aware of and care about To our best knowledge, our study is the first to in-
how their personal data are handled by apps on their vestigate the usability and effectiveness of real-world
mobilephones.However,theextremelycomplexmobile mobile app privacy labels with end users.
ecosystem makes it difficult for people to protect their
data privacy on their mobile devices [68]. Even learn-
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 207
3 Method
We conducted 24 semi-structured interviewers over
Zoom between mid January and early March of 2022
to explore participants’ experiences, perceptions, and
understanding of Apple’s privacy labels inside the iOS
AppStore.Thisstudywasapprovedbyourinstitutional
review board.
3.1 Recruitment and Screening
We recruited participants online through postings on
abouttwodozenlocalCraigslistsandsub-Redditforums
for geographic locations throughout the U.S. The re-
cruitmentpostsdidnotmentionorrefertoprivacy.Po-
tential participants responded to our recruitment posts
by filling out a short screening survey to confirm their
eligibility(age18orolder,abletospeakEnglish,located
intheUnitedStates).Participantswhohaddownloaded
one or more apps from Apple’s App Store in the past
three months were qualified, and some were invited to
participate in the follow-up interview. We employed a
purposivesamplingmethod[71]toensureadiversesam-
Fig.1.ScreenshotsofcompactprivacylabelsfromDoorDash
ple of participants based on age, gender, and occupa-
(left)andChipotle(right)intheiOSAppStore
tion. Among the 148 people who completed the screen-
ing survey, only one person was disqualified due to not
app.Then,weaskedparticipantswhethertheyhadever
having downloaded an app in the past three months.
wondered about or investigated what information apps
collected about them and whether privacy was an im-
3.2 Interview Protocol portant factor when downloading apps.
Participantscompletedtheonlineconsentformpriorto
the scheduled Zoom meeting. At the start of the Zoom
session,participantswereinformedthattheycouldstop
the interview at any time or decline to answer a ques-
tion, and then they were given the opportunity to ask
the researcher any questions. They were instructed not
to disclose any personally identifiable information.
The lead author conducted all 24 interviews, which
on average lasted 64 minutes. At the end of the inter-
view,eachparticipantfilledoutabriefpost-surveywith
additional demographic questions. All interviews were
recorded via Zoom and transcribed by a commercial
transcriptionservicewithparticipants’consent.Wesent
eachparticipanta$25Amazon.comgiftcard viaemail.
The screening survey, interview script, and post-survey
can be found in the Appendix.
We first asked participants about their experience
usinganiPhoneanddownloadingapps,andaskedthem Fig.2.Chipotle’sprivacylabelintheiOSAppStore
to walk us through a recent experience downloading an
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 208
Later, we asked participants to share their iPhone
screen through Zoom for an interactive session. In this
activity,weaskedthemtovisittheAppStoreandread
the compact (Figure 1) and detailed (Figures 2 and 3)
privacy labels of two apps in a randomized order. For
each app, we asked some specific questions related to
theprivacylabels,suchastheirunderstandingofterms
in the labels (e.g., “Data Used to Track You,” “Iden-
tifiers,” “Product Interaction,” “Product Personaliza-
tion”), and their interpretations of the data practices
disclosed (e.g., whether the app might share their data
with third-party companies for advertising purposes).
We also asked them to compare several similar terms
(e.g.,“datalinkedtoyou”and“datausedtotrackyou”)
and explain the differences, if there were any.
After participants completed all the questions for
both apps, we asked about their general perceptions of
the privacy labels, including whether they found these
labels to be useful or not, what they liked or disliked
about these labels, and whether they would pay atten-
tion to these labels in the future. In addition, we also
asked whom they considered to be the source of infor-
mation presented in the labels (e.g., the app developer
or Apple). We finished the interview by asking partici-
pants about their general privacy concerns and behav-
iors(e.g.,whethertheyhadreadaprivacypolicyornot,
whether they had experienced any of their data being
misused).
3.3 Interview Design and Piloting
We carefully designed our interviews and set the ques-
tionordersoastominimizeanyprimingofparticipants.
We iteratively piloted and refined the interview proto-
colwith5volunteerparticipantsand1recruitedpartic-
ipant.Ourinterviewprotocolisdesignedtolearnabout
participant awareness of privacy labels before we men-
tion them, and then to learn about participant under-
standing of the labels.
In choosing which privacy labels to show, we origi-
nally designed the protocol to let participants view the
privacy labels of an app they recently downloaded and
anapptheyusefrequently.Afterpiloting,wedecidedto
fixtheappsthatparticipantsreviewedduetotheunpre-
dictabilityofappsandlargevariancesoftheseapps’pri-
vacylabels.Weconsideredonepairofmostdownloaded
apps for each of four app categories (Shopping, Social
Networking,Finance,andFood&Drink).Twopilotpar-
ticipants expressed a strong preference for a particu-
lar social networking app for privacy reasons. Finance
Fig.3.DoorDash’sprivacylabelintheiOSAppStore
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 209
appsalso elicitedgreaterprivacy concernsfrompartici- their data. We present participants’ demographic in-
pants,potentiallymakingtheresultsmoreapp-specific. formation and some descriptive statistics about their
We decided to use Chipotle (Figure 2) and DoorDash iPhone and app usage in Table 1.
(Figure 3) because the two apps are similar in nature, Our study participants were experienced iPhone
but their privacy labels are very different and together users with a median of 10 years of usage. Ten of them
coveravarietyoftermsandtopicsintroducedinApple’s downloaded one or more new apps within a day of the
privacy labels. interview,10withinthepreviousweek,and4withinthe
previousmonth.Participantsestimatedhavingonaver-
age59appsontheirphone,farbelowtheactualaverage
3.4 Data Analysis numberof124apps,whichwasobtainedfromtheiriOS
Settings during the interview.
All transcribed interviews were cleaned up by the lead
author and analyzed using inductive coding [10]. The
lead author met with the research team several times 3.6 Limitations
to discuss the first few interview transcripts and gen-
erate an initial codebook. The lead author then coded Our study focuses on iOS privacy labels viewed on
the rest of the data individually using the codebook. iPhones and is qualitative in nature based on a purpo-
Duringtheprocess,theresearchteammetasneededto sive sample recruited from location-specific online fora.
improvethecodebookandtodiscussanyperceivedam- Oursampleskewsmoreeducatedandyoungerthanthe
biguities. Given the qualitative and exploratory nature general U.S. population. We aim to describe some of
ofthestudy,thesemethodsweredeemedsufficient[48]. the challenges lay users might encounter as they inter-
The final codebook includes 204 codes across 64 cate- act with Apple’s privacy labels in the App Store with-
gories.Wereleasedthecodebookandtheredactedinter- outmakingquantitativeorgeneralizableclaims.Were-
viewtranscriptswithcodesviatheOpenScienceFrame- cruited iPhone users with iOS 14 or above so that par-
work.1 ticipantswouldhaveallpotentiallybeenexposedtothe
Due to the qualitative nature of this work, we try iOS privacy labels, but there could be a sampling bias
to avoid using exact numbers but adopt a consistent resulting from targeting such a population.
terminologytoconveytherelativesenseofthefrequency We did not explore other devices in Apple’s ecosys-
of major themes, similar to prior work [26, 36]. We use tem (e.g., iPad, Mac). However, since Apple uses the
the terminology shown in Figure 4 to characterize the same privacy label system with identical terminology
frequency of participant responses. andstructuresbutslightlydifferentlayouts,manyofour
results could be reasonably extended to labels on other
types of devices. In addition, we chose only two apps
about almost
none afew some many majority most all (DoorDash and Chipotle) for our study. Future work
half all
0% 15% 30% 45% 55% 70% 85% 100% could investigate whether different apps might have in-
duced different perceptions.
Fig.4.Terminologyusedtopresentrelativefrequencyofthemes.
Finally, our study focused on the U.S. population
and did not consider other cultural backgrounds. Fu-
tureworkcouldexplorethepotentialimpactofdifferent
3.5 Demographics
languages used in the labels or expand the population
coverage to account for other cultural factors.
Among all participants, 11 were male, and 13 were fe-
male. They represent a diverse background in terms
of their age, education, technology experience (whether
4 Results
theysaid“yes”tothequestion“Haveyoueverheldajob
or received a degree in computer science or any related
We report participants’ perceptions about app privacy
technology field?”), employment status, and their gen-
and Apple’s privacy labels, their misunderstandings
eral understanding of what companies are doing with
about the labels, and their suggestions for improve-
ments.
1 https://osf.io/47kzt/
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 210
Tech Employment iPhone #of RecentApp
# Age Gender Education Occupation Chipotle DoorDash Order
Exp Status Usage Apps Download
N1 60-69 F Bachelor’s No Eventplanner Retired 4 82 <1week No No D
N2 40-49 F Bachelor’s No Administrator Full-time 10 79 <1week No Installed C
N3 30-39 F Bachelor’s No Administrator Full-time 10 103 <1day No Installed D
N4 18-29 M >Master’s No Neuroscientist Full-time 14 115 <1day No Installed D
N5 50-59 F >Master’s No Administrator Full-time 10 71 <1month No Installed C
N6 18-29 M Bachelor’s No HairStylist Full-time 6 36 <1week No No D
N7 30-39 F Bachelor’s No Contracting Full-time 7 135 <1week No Installed C
N8 40-49 F Somecollege No Homemaker Homemaker 4 102 <1day No Installed D
N9 40-49 F Master’s No Projectmngr Full-time 7 75 <1day Installed No C
N10 30-39 F Master’s No Operationmngr Full-time 14 126 <1day No Installed D
N11 30-39 F Bachelor’s No HairStylist Full-time 5 180 <1day No No C
N12 40-49 F Master’s Yes Tech Full-time 10 67 <1day Installed No D
N13 18-29 F Associate’s No HeadofHR Full-time 12 107 <1week No Installed C
N14 40-49 M Bachelor’s Yes Softwaretrainer Full-time 6 56 <1week No Installed D
N15 40-49 M Bachelor’s No Officemngr Full-time 12 249 <1week Installed No C
N16 50-59 F Bachelor’s No Artadvisor Full-time 10 73 <1week No No D
N17 50-59 M Somecollege No Banquetserver Full-time 6 161 <1week Installed Installed C
N18 18-29 M Bachelor’s Yes Urbanplanner Part-time 6.5 57 <1month Installed Installed D
N19 40-49 M Master’s Yes Optionstrader Full-time 12 97 <1day Installed Installed C
N20 40-49 M Master’s No HRDirector Full-time 15 319 <1month No No C
N21 30-39 F Somecollege No Dentalasstnt Part-time 8 231 <1day Installed Installed D
N22 18-29 M Bachelor’s No CWO Part-time 8 19 <1month No No C
N23 30-39 M Bachelor’s Yes Reseller Full-time 12 324 <1day Installed Installed C
N24 18-29 M Bachelor’s No Waiter Full-time 10 121 <1week Installed Installed D
Table1.Participantdemographics.“TechExp”referstowhethertheyhaveheldajobordegreeincomputerscienceorarelatedfield;
“iPhoneUsage”referstothenumberofyearsusinganiPhone;“#ofApps”referstothenumberofappsinstalledontheirphoneas
showniniPhoneSettings;“RecentAppDownload”referstowhenparticipantsreportedhavinglastdownloadedanappontotheir
phone;“Order”referstotheappthatparticipantsvisitedfirstintheAppStorewith“D”representingDoorDashand“C”forChipotle.
4.1 Perceptions about App Privacy then decide, oh, this is too much. Maybe I might delete
it. But when I’m looking for an app, no.”
Wepresentthreeinsightsfromthefirstpartofourinter- Even though privacy was rarely considered when
viewpriortointroducingparticipantstotheapplabels. participants were downloading apps, many participants
did report having privacy concerns regarding specific
apps.Somedescribedremovingnewlydownloadedapps
4.1.1 Privacy Is Rarely Considered Prior to because specific personal information was requested
Installation during sign-up. Some indicated that they had deleted
apps, such as WhatsApp, Facebook, and T-mobile, af-
We asked participants to describe their recent or typ- ter a data breach or learning about privacy concerns
ical process of downloading apps from the App Store. regarding these apps.
Most of our participants said they already know what About half of the participants were not concerned
app to download when they visit the app store, ei- about app privacy, as N10 acknowledged: “I try to ig-
therthroughrecommendationsfromfriends,articles,or nore that and push that outta my head.”
ads.Someparticipantsreportedtryingseveralappsand
deletingunwantedones.Someparticipantsalsoreported
searching for keywords in the app store and selecting 4.1.2 Most Have Questions about App Privacy but
an app. Privacy was rarely the reason to (not) choose Lack Usable Sources for Answers
an app during the downloading phase except for a few
participants; in comparison, utility, reviews, and cost Most participants reported having questions related to
are the top factors that participants considered before appprivacy.N23providedexamplesofthetypesofques-
theirdownload.AsdescribedbyN19whenaskedabout tions he had in mind: “I do think about like, what in-
whether privacy was a reason to (not) choose an app: formation are they taking from me? How does it affect
“Not at that stage. No. I might download the app and me in my life?”
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 211
About half of the participants said they would use Many participants reported not scrolling down on app
Googletofindanswers.Forinstance,N21explainedtry- pagestoseethelabels,asN21commented,“Don’tthink
ingtouseGoogle:“Googlesearching,Ihavetried,but... I go all the way down there.” Others simply did not see
itwasn’tlikeaprofessionalopinion.Therewereallother them. For instance, N20 acknowledged, “No. If I did,
consumers who had wondered that same thing that I then I glazed over it. This is the first time I’ve ever
was wondering and what they think it does.” consciously seen it.”
N23 mentioned using Google to find answers:
If there’s an app that might be asking for permission for 4.2 Perceptions of Privacy Labels
somethingandI’mlike,wait,doesthisseemright?Iwillgo
to a third party, Google or Twitter, so like that, and just
Thissectionreportshowparticipantsperceivedtheapp
doalittlebitofresearchonmyown...makesurethatwhat
they’reaskingforisactuallylegitimate. privacylabelsaftertheyexaminedtheAppPrivacysec-
tion for both apps.
Many participants considered privacy policies or terms
of services as places to look for answers but reported
frustrationwiththem.Forinstance,N21voicedherres- 4.2.1 Most Found Labels Useful
ignation:
Mostparticipantsreportedfindingthelabelsuseful.For
Imean,theydohavewhattheyuseitforinthetermsand
example,N4saidthelabelscomparedfavorablytoother
conditions. But that’s something for a lawyer to look at.
types of privacy notices:
I need layman’s terms. I need people’s terms. So I really
don’tunderstandthetermsandtheconditions.Ijusthope
Ithinkitisusefulbecauseassocietyatitswholeandpeo-
thattheyusemyinformationforthebest.
ple individually are caring more about their privacy. So it
makes sense that companies and app providers are forced
Some participants reported looking into apps’ data col-
toactuallydisplaythisstuffinawaytothecustomerthat
lectionpracticesiniPhone’sprivacysettingsorbeingin-
is not completely incredibly difficult to understand like in
formed by iPhone privacy prompts, as detailed by N20: a50-pageToS[termsofservice],forexample.
The only time I get concerned... when the app has a little N7 considered the label useful but also noted how in-
pop-up, you know, when I’m using it, and it says this app
conspicuous it is:
willcollectpersonalinformationaboutyouandwhenwould
youlikeittodoso.Andit’slike,allthetime,whenyou’re
I mean it’s useful, I think, if you specifically know what
usingit,ornever.
you’relookingfor.Iwouldthinkformostpeopletheydon’t
knowthatthisexists,youknow,liketheymightjustscroll
Some participants considered the app store as a place
throughandagain,seethecomment,likethisapp’samaz-
to find privacy-related information, as N14 described: ing, or how many stars, or when it was last updated, but
“I would hope that in the app store that the part of Idon’tknowthatpeoplereallyknowthatthismuchinfor-
thedescriptionoftheappitselfwouldhavethattypeof mationisprovidedinthatsection.
stuff.”
On the other hand, some participants did not consider
the labels useful. For example, N14 was not satisfied
with the labels: “It just definitely feels like it’s like a
4.1.3 Most Unaware of Privacy Labels
companyfulfillingarequirementandnotnecessarilylike
tryingtotelltheconsumerwhat’shappening.”Similarly,
EventhoughtheappprivacylabelshadbeenintheApp
N13 noted, “It’s so vague that... it’s like a ‘there there,
Storeformorethanayearatthetimeofourinterviews,
don’tworry,we’retellingyouexactlywhatwe’redoing’,
most of our participants had not seen or read them.
but in reality, you’re not telling me nothing.”
Amongour24participants,afewparticipantssaidthey
N2 acknowledged that the labels would be unlikely
hadpreviouslyreadanappprivacylabelintheiOSApp
to impact her use of apps, “I guess it’s kind of like a
Store. One of them was likely mistaken based on his
nice to know, but at the end of the day... I probably
descriptionofwhathehadread.Someparticipantssaid
wouldn’t run and delete the app.”
theybecameawareoftheexistenceofappprivacylabels
while scrolling past them in the App Store but did not
stop and read them. Most were unaware of the labels.
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 212
4.2.2 Most Stated Intention to Use Labels The majority believed (wrongly) that Apple had re-
viewed or verified the information in the labels. N7 ex-
Mostparticipantsreportedthattheywouldrefertothe plained:
labels in the future. N15 described:
[Appleis]allowingthatapp,thatproductontheirsystem....
Itmakesmealarmedtheamountofinformationthat’sbeing SoIthinkApple,ifthey’reapprovingthatappandthey’re
collected about me through apps. And I’m gonna take a behindit,thenIwouldthinktheyshouldbechecking[the
serious look at it after this. I’m gonna look at it and I’ll privacylabel].
take action. I’ll make sure that if there’s something easy
I can do to set what I’m allowing on my all apps on my
phone, if I can do it in one easy step, that’s what I’ll do. 4.2.4 Many Participants Would Not Trust the Labels
Butifnot,ifIhavetogothrougheachapp,thenI’llhave
todothat.
The majority of participants reported trusting the la-
Someparticipantsreportedthattheywouldlookatthe bels, because some trust Apple. N24 explained, “I trust
privacylabelsforappsthattheyarenotfamiliarwithor that their App Store wouldn’t be showing me misinfor-
to compare apps, as described by N18, “If I’m looking mation.” Some believed that they had no reason not to
for a certain app... if I had choices among other apps trust the labels or had to trust it, as N20 explained,
that were of similar caliber... this [privacy label] might “Why not? I’m going to trust that. It is because I have
influence my decision somewhat.” no evidence that it’s not [trustworthy].”
A few participants even deleted apps during the in- Ontheotherhand,manyparticipantsdidnottrust
terview or planned to delete apps upon completing the the labels. N10 explained her reasoning:
interview.
Because of all these things listed that I don’t even under-
Those participants who said they did not find the
stand but know that they’re wrong, I understand enough
labels useful were also less likely to say they would use
toknowthatit’swrongandit’snotokay.Ijustknowthat
them in the future. theyputitonherebecauseit’smandatorythattheydo,but
they’rejustdoingitbecausetheyhaveto,notbecausethey
wantmetoknow.There’snothingwithgoodintentions.
4.2.3 Some Mistakenly Assumed Apple’s Role in
Some participants were concerned about the vagueness
Producing the Labels
of the labels, as N13 explained, “I trust it as far as I
could throw it. I mean, it’s reliable but very vague. So
A few participants thought Apple and app developers
it’sjustlike...Idon’tknowtowhatextentyou’rereally
together produced the labels, while some participants
doing this.”
thought the labels were provided by Apple, as N8 com-
Both labels included an “other” category, which
mented,“Itsaysithasn’tbeenverifiedbyApple.Sofor
concerned some participants and contributed to their
me, that’s confusing because I would assume that... it
concernsaboutvagueness.N4noted,“Iwouldnottrust
was Apple all this time.” Most assumed the labels were
it ahundredpercent. Sojust becauseof wildcards, like
provided by the app developers.
other data.” We discuss this further in Section 4.3.3.
ManyparticipantscorrectlydeducedthatAppledid
not review the information submitted by app develop-
ers; some learned this from the disclaimer at the top of
4.3 Misunderstandings of Privacy Labels
the labels (Figures 2 and 3). For instance, N23 said, if
he hadn’t read the disclaimer:
In this section, we report the misunderstandings that
ourparticipantsexpressedastheysystematicallylooked
Giventhatit’sontheappstoredescriptionpage,Iwouldas-
sumeitwouldbeinformationeitherprovidedbyordirectly at two privacy labels following the interview protocol
vetted by Apple because they seem to exert a pretty tight in the Appendix. We focus on overall understanding,
control over things that go on the app store itself at least. confusing terminology, and vague language.
AndIknowthattheyalsodosomeamountofreviewingof
eachversionofeachappthatgetsup.
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 213
4.3.1 Overall Understanding with lists of purposes of data use under each category,
and then specific types of data under each purpose, as
At a high level, about half of our participants had mis- shown in Figures 2 and 3. This structure was not read-
conceptionsabouttherequirementsforwhatisdisclosed ilyapparenttoabouthalfofourparticipants,whowere
in an app privacy label, and about half were confused confusedabouthowtofindthepurposesanddidnotun-
about the label structure itself. derstand why specific data types were shown multiple
times. For example, after viewing the DoorDash label,
which discloses data being used for multiple purposes,
What needs to be disclosed some participants said they thought the DoorDash la-
About half our participants mistakenly assumed the la- belcontainedredundantinformation.Forexample,N21
belincludedallappdatacollectionandusage.However, noted,“Alotoftheinformationwasrepeated....Idon’t
Appledoesnotrequiredisclosureofallappdatacollec- see the need to keep repeating the same that it’s gonna
tion:disclosureisoptionalfordatathatarenotusedfor collect my purchase, my location, stuff like that.”
tracking or advertising purposes, collected infrequently, When asked about what the purpose heading “app
and in the app’s user interface [3]. functionality” means on the DoorDash label, N10 said:
On the other hand, about half of our participants
said they did not believe or were not sure that the pri- It’s a word that I figure out the meaning to, but I don’t
knowhowitappliestoallthesethingslistedunderit.SoI
vacylabelsshowalloftheappdatacollectionandhan-
reallycan’tevenguess.
dling. They were concerned that companies were only
disclosing what they had to disclose. N14 explained:
Similarly, N3 expressed confusion when examining
the Chipotle label, and noted that she had similar con-
Italmostseemslikethedeveloper,thecompaniesonlyshow
cerns about the DoorDash label, “There’s not really a
youwhatthey’reforcedtoshowyou.Andit’spossiblethat
purposehonestly...becausetheyallkindofsaythesame
the development of data capturing features and function-
ality is faster than the regulation to regulate it. And they thing. So like with the last one too, like they were all
only do so most of the time if they’re in fear of getting in like basically a lot of repetitive information.”
troubleforit.
A few participants were puzzled by why only some of
4.3.2 Terminology Caused Confusion
the three boxes were displayed. N18 noted:
All participants expressed confusion about one or more
TheDoorDashapp,ithad“datalinkedtoyou”,youknow,
“data used to track you”... whereas for Chipotle, they’re termsusedinthelabelsorgaveinterpretationsofterms
just saying what’s not linked to you.... I understand what that did not match Apple’s definitions. Only a few par-
they’renotusingtolinktome,butthenwhataretheyusing ticipants noticed the link on the label to review the ac-
to link to me? Right. You can’t just assume that because
tual privacy term definitions (the second paragraph of
it’snotonhere,thatmeanstheyaren’tdoingit.
Figures2and3),andevenfewerofthoseclickedtoview
those definitions.
Confusing label structure
“Tracking” is overloaded
The compact privacy label for each app, as shown in
Apple’s definition of tracking indicates that data can
Figure 1, shows up to three boxes for three categories
be used to link with third-party data for targeted ad-
ofdata:datausedtotrackyou,datalinkedtoyou,and
vertising or to share data with data brokers. However,
data not linked to you. Within each box is a list of spe-
this was not always clear to participants. For instance,
cific data types, each accompanied by an icon. If there
when looking at the tracking section of the DoorDash
isnodataforaparticularcategory,thatboxisomitted.
label(Fig.3)N19couldnottellwhetherdatawouldbe
Userswhoclickononeoftheboxesorthe“SeeDetails”
used for advertising purposes: “It doesn’t say anything
link at the top of the label are taken to a more detailed
aboutads?Itdoesn’tsaywhatexactlytheywillusethis
view that shows the same three categories. The “data
data for.” Some participants did not associate tracking
used to track you” category shows specific data types,
with data brokers aggregating their information across
with an even more detailed list under each type. How-
other websites and companies.
ever, the other two categories are presented differently,
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 214
Some participants who glanced at the definition of Term Definition
“data used to track you” were surprised to find that
Datalinked Data that is linked to your identity (via your ac-
trackinginvolvessharinginformationwithotherparties toyou count,device,orotherdetails).“Personalinforma-
ratherthanjustcollectingdataoneithertheuser’sloca- tion” and “personal data” as defined under rele-
tionorwebsiteusage.Forexample,N1saidtrackingwas vant privacy laws are considered linked to you. In
orderfordatatonotbelinkedtoyou,thedeveloper
“trackingmelikewhereIgo,”whileN5describedtrack-
mustavoidcertainactivitiesaftertheycollectit:1)
ing as, “I think my usage, the frequency of ordering or
Theymustmakenoattempttolinkthedataback
usingthesiteandidentifyingwhereIam.Ithinkthat’s to your identity. 2) They must not tie the data to
alltracking.Ithinktrackingiswhataremyhabits.”Af- other data sets that enable it to be linked to your
ter being told that the definition included sharing, she identity.
said, “I don’t like that at all. Like now that you say it, Datanot Data that is not linked to your identity (via your
linkedtoyou account,device,orotherdetails).
I’m thinking I’m deleting this app [DoorDash]. I think
it’s too intrusive.” Table2.Apple’sdefinitionsofdatalinkedtoyouanddatanot
linkedtoyou[4]
N7 was also surprised and concerned by the defini-
tion of “data used to track you”:
It’s concerning. I will say that I didn’t realize. I kind of “Datanotlinkedtoyou”ontheChipotlelabelalsocon-
believedthattheywouldtracklike,oh,shelooksupdogs. fused about half of the participants; most participants
So then just random dog things would pop up like ads or
wereconfusedaftertheysawcontactinformationshown
like,youknow,sopickupkindoflikewhatIwassearching.
underthisheadingasinFigure2.Theinclusionofcon-
But seeing this, it goes way deeper than that, you know,
they’re actually collecting the information, which to me is tactinformationinthiscategoryispossiblyanerror,as
kindofscary. N13 observed:
It states it’s not linked to you, but obviously it is linked
toyoubecauseit’syourpersonalinformation,likeyourad-
Confusion around “data (not) linked to you”
dress, your email address, your phone number, and your
Thethreeboxesinthecompactlabelseemedtoconfuse
name. These are all very personal things that are specifi-
participants, despite the explanations included in each callyyou,asopposedtothemstatingthisislikecompletely
box. anonymous. So I don’t know if they’re like lying, if that’s
Partially due to not understanding tracking, most likeafinelineasin,“wecollectthisinformationforourapp
purposesonly,andthentheinformationthatwesharewith
participants could not explain the difference between
othercompaniesthat’snotlinkedtoyouisyouknowwhat
“data used to track you” and “data linked to you,” or
wearesharing.”
their explanation was inconsistent with Apple’s defini-
tions, shown in Table 2. N2 admitted, “Well I don’t When users observe potentially erroneous information
know what the difference is.... Maybe they’re just re- in the labels it may undermine trust in the labels, as
quired to have both sections.” noted by N21, “Now I feel like you’re lying to me be-
N4 was confused about the same data categories cause I don’t see how you’re collecting my name but
shownunderthesetwoheadingsintheDoorDashlabel, then telling me it’s not linked to me.”
and he wrongly assumed “data linked to you” implied
data not being shared:
Entangled and overlapping definitions
I was under the perception that data that is linked to me
Most participants were particularly confused about the
hasmoreidentifiersthatmakemenon-anonymous,forex-
terms,appfunctionality,analytics,andproductperson-
ample,myphysicaladdressandmyname.ButthenIread
that this is also in “data used to track me.” So out from alization, shown in Table 3. They either admitted that
thedescriptions“thefollowingdatamightbeusedtotrack theydidnotknowthedefinitionsofthesetermsorgave
you across apps” and “the following data, which may be theirowndefinitionsinwhichtheymixeduptheterms.
collected and linked to your identity may be used for pur-
Forexample,N19gaveadefinitionforappfunction-
poses.” Difficult for me to understand. I can imagine that
ality that confuses it with analytics: “By collecting this
thisdataisperhapsjustputintoadatabasetocreateapro-
fileofme,but Idon’ta hundredpercentunderstandwhat data about me and gazillion other people, they analyze
itis.” itandtheymightchangethefunctionalitybasedonthe
patterns that they see.”
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 215
Term Definition sharedwithDoorDashitselfandwhenDoorDashwantsto
createabetterproductoutofit.
Analytics Usingdatatoevaluateyourbehavior,includingto
understand the effectiveness of existing product
features, plan new features, or measure audience
sizeorcharacteristics. Unfamiliar terms for frequently used data types
App Such as to authenticate you in the app, enable Threefrequentlyusedtermsdescribingdatatypesoften
Functionality features, prevent fraud, implement security mea- confused participants.
sures,ensureserveruptime,minimizeappcrashes,
The data category “user content,” for which Apple
improve scalability and performance, or perform
does not provide a definition, was called out as confus-
customersupport.
ing by about half of the participants. Some were also
ProductPer- Customizing what you see, such as a list of rec-
confused by the term “customer support” below the
sonalization ommendedproducts,posts,orsuggestions.
bold heading for user content in both labels. For ex-
Table3.Apple’sdefinitionsofanalytics,appfunctionality,and
productpersonalizationpurposes[4] ample, not knowing what the heading meant, N10 took
a guess: “User content and customers support. Maybe
they’relikeblockingmefromgettingintouchwithcus-
Term Definition tomer support.... I don’t know. That’s ridiculous. I re-
Third-party Suchasdisplayingthird-partyadsintheapporshar- ally dunno what it is.”
Advertising ingdatawithentitieswhodisplaythird-partyads. Some participants did not understand the term
Developer’s Such as displaying the developer’s own ads in the “identifiers,” for which Apple does not provide a def-
Adver- app,sendingmarketingcommunicationsdirectlyto
inition, and a few looked to the icon next to the term
tising or you, or sharing data with entities who will display
for answers, noting it looked like some sort of a photo
Marketing adstoyou.
ID. N4 explained, “I don’t know what identifier is, but
Table4.Apple’sdefinitionsofadvertising-relatedpurposes[4]
based on the icon... I’m guessing like identity-related
information could be phone, name, email, etc.” On the
other hand, N10 was confused by the icon, “What are
N1mixedupappfunctionalitywithproductperson-
identifiers? That looks like a license.”
alization, describing app functionality as “customizing
“Product interaction” was also confusing to many
my user content.” N3 tried to define analytics as “for
participants, and a few of them erroneously believed
them to see how like the app is working, I think,” ad-
that product refers to items they viewed or bought, as
mitting, “I don’t really know what analytics is. And I
N18 explained:
don’t really even know what the difference between a
lot of these.” Ithinktheproductreferstolikeanitem,likeanythingtan-
A majority of participants could not tell the dif- gible,right?Causeyouknow,forDoorDash,you’repurchas-
ferencebetweenthird-partyadvertisinganddeveloper’s ingitemsthroughthem.Typicallyit’slikefoodordrink.So
Iguesstothatend,whatspecificrestaurantsamIordering
advertising, shown in Table 4. N8 described her confu-
fromfrequently?WhatfoodsamIbuyingfrequentlyifIam
sion:
orderingonline,stufflikethat.
The advertising and the third party? Yeah, that’s a good
Other data type terms that confused participants in-
question because it kind of feels like it means the same
cluded “usage data,” “diagnostics,” and “coarse loca-
thing. I feel like the third-party advertising is somebody
other than DoorDash. And then the developer’s one is, I tion.”
don’t know, to tell you the truth. I don’t know the differ-
ence.
Term Definition
Some participants mistakenly thought that developer’s Product Suchasapplaunches,taps,clicks,scrollinginforma-
Interaction tion, music-listening data, video views, saved place
advertising did not involve third parties, as N4 sug-
inagame,video,orsong,orotherinformationabout
gested:
howyouinteractwiththeapp.
Table5.Apple’sdefinitionofproductinteraction[4]
Theoretically,thedifferenceshouldbethatthird-partyad-
vertisementhasthepurposeofmonetizingmeandmaking
money out of me by showing me ads, whereas developer’s
advertisingormarketingisfordevelopingabetterproduct
in the end. So it’s not shared with a third party, but it’s
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 216
4.3.3 Vague Language on Labels Term Definition
Browsing Information about the content you have viewed
The “other” category is alarming history thatisnotpartoftheapp,suchaswebsites.
Almost all participants responded with confusion when Searchhistory Informationaboutsearchesperformedintheapp.
theysawtermsinthelabelrelatedtootherdatatypesor Table6.Apple’sdefinitionsofbrowsingandsearchhistory[4]
otherpurposessincetheydidnotknowwhattheseother
categories could entail. About half of the participants
said these terms made them anxious or decreased the
saythat.Soitsays“searchhistory.”Itcouldalsobekeeping
utility of the label. N3 asked, “Why even write all the
trackofallthesearchesIdoonGoogle.
details, if you’re just gonna say other?” Similarly, N22
commented:
User content: emails, texts, photos, or videos
Idon’tlikeit.Thissectionseemstobelikeanextrasection
Many participants were concerned or not sure about to
forpeoplewhowanttobeclearonwhat’sbeingused,and
what extent the data listed under user content could
then they give vague answers. Anyway, it doesn’t make it
pointless,butitmakesitlessuseful. be used in the DoorDash label. For instance, N22 com-
mented, “I’d hope that this user content section is just
N4 considered this a way for companies to make sure stuff in the app for customer support purposes. But if
they covered everything that was required: it’s looking at your emails or texts or photos or videos
outside of the app, that’s very disconcerting.”
Idon’tthinkthatacompanywouldblatantlylietomehere.
Many participants were disturbed by this kind of
This, in my opinion, would be bad intent of the company.
data collection, as N8 explained:
AndIdon’tthinkthatthecompanywoulddothisnowadays
becauseitwouldbevery,verystupidifthiscomesoutlike
Usercontent,yeah.They’regonnacheckhowIusetheapp,
Dieselgate,youknow,butaslongastheycanputsomething
how many purchases I’m making, where I am at the time
in there, which is other data, I can imagine that they are
thatI’musingit.Idon’tknowwhattheywouldneedemails
covered anyways, you know, because what is other data it
ortextmessagesorphotosorvideos.Idon’tknowwhythey
canputinanything.
would need that. I didn’t know they would have access to
myphotos.That’skindweird.That’skindofcreepy.Idon’t
knowwhatfoodhastodowithmyphotos.
The scope of browsing and search history is unclear
Most participants made assumptions about browsing Most participants were concerned to see data collection
and search history that did not align with Apple’s def- that they perceived as unrelated to the purpose of the
initions, shown in Table 6, or became confused or con- app, such as their contacts being used by DoorDash.
cerned when they learned about the definitions.
N19 looked at the DoorDash label and tried to in-
Term Definition
terpret the meaning of browsing history: “Is it the Do-
Emailsortext Including subject line, sender, recipients,
orDash website’s browsing or any browsing? Is it the
messages andcontentsoftheemailormessage.
DoorDash app or any app? I don’t know.” The major-
Photosorvideos Yourphotosorvideos.
ity of participants were concerned when they learned
Audiodata Yourvoiceorsoundrecordings.
thatbrowsinghistoryincludes“contentyouhaveviewed
Customersupport Datayougenerateduringacustomersup-
that is not part of the app.” N4 commented, “So then
portrequest.
I think this should be a bigger topic that is communi-
Otherusercontent Anyothercontentyougenerate.
catedoverall,thatjustbyhavingfooddeliveredtoyou,
Table7.Apple’sdefinitionsoftermsunder“UserContent”[4]
you are showing the world what you browse on your
smartphone.”
Even though search history is defined to be only
within the app, some participants assumed it referred
toothersearchesaswell.Forinstance,N17commented:
4.4 Suggested Improvements
Iwouldhopethatit’sonlykeepingtrackofsearchesonmy
apps.Inotherwords,DoorDash,Igoonthereandtypein
Althoughmostparticipantslikedthelabelconcept,they
“tacos.”Itwillcomeupwithtacos.Butitdoesn’tactually
had a number of concerns, as discussed in the previous
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 217
sections, as well as ideas for improvements. In this sec- 4.4.3 Embedded Actions and Controls
tion,wereportonimprovementstothelabelssuggested
by study participants. Many participants voiced their frustration with the la-
belsduetotheirlackofcontrolsandsuggestedcontrols
to turn off some of the data collection. N19 explained:
4.4.1 Better Structure for Data and Purposes
I don’t like it that it’s too long and you can’t really take
anyactiononit.It’sreallyjustinformationalandyoucan’t
As discussed in Section 4.3.1, participants found the
really turn it on off, etc. at this level.... I’d rather just be
structureofthelabelconfusing,andmanyhadthemis-
able to turn off whatever is not required.... If any of this
conception that some sections were redundant. Under- trackingisoptional,Iwannabeabletoturnitoff.
lying this confusion is that the label designers mapped
a multi-dimensional space of data types and purposes N2 described in detail what she envisioned:
onto a list-based label representation. A matrix or tab-
Maybebylettingyoucheckoffthingsthatyoudon’twant
ularapproachmightofferamorecompactandintuitive
includedormakeiteasytolikeoptoutofallofthis.Well,
representation, as N5 suggested: “I do think those last
everyappasksyouwhenyouinstallitiftheycanliketrack
two sections [app functionality and product personal-
and share your stuff, so make it easier. So I don’t have to
ization] were very redundant, and so I think they could learnorgohunting....Itcouldbelikeacheckboxoraradio
do it by like a table with a bunch of checkboxes....” sliderorsomething....
4.4.2 Easy Access to Definitions and Contextualized 4.4.4 Access to More Information
Examples of Data Collected
Participants suggested other topics related to app pri-
The majority of participants suggested making the def- vacy that they would like to see added to the label.
initions of label terms more accessible. Currently, the Someparticipantsaskedforinformationaboutdata
definitions of many of the terms are available through retention,asN18articulated,“Howlongisthisinforma-
a link from the detailed view to a web page with the tionstoredfor,right.Iftherewasaclearunderstanding
definitionsallinoneplace.However,manyparticipants that your information’s gonna be stored for 30 days,
wantedtoseeeachtermlinkedtoitsdefinition,perhaps thatwouldprobablygivemealotmoresolacethannot
appearing through a hover. For example, N4 explained: knowing right now.”
Some participants were interested in knowing to
It would be cool if this information would be hot linked whom the apps are sending their information. N7 said
there,youknow,likethereisthissymbolwithan“i”init, shewouldliketoknow“whereexactlyisitbeing[sent]?
which means information, you know, that would be cool.
Is it being sold? Is it being just shared back and forth
Solikebrowsinghistory,forexample,click,youknow,I’m
so that there’s this hub that everybody uses?”
like,“Ooh,whatdoesthismean?”
Afewparticipantswantedtoknowwheretheycould
Others, including N8, suggested using “terminology havequestionsansweredorreadmoredetailedinforma-
that’sjusteasiertounderstand.”Manyparticipantssug- tion. N3 wondered:
gested providing concrete examples of the data being
So where would I go to like ask somebody or chat with
collected. N20 suggested:
somebody or like, there should be like another link that
takesyoutodiveindeeperifyouwantedtoknow,because
If I click user ID... I know what a user ID is, but tell me
I don’t know what I would even like, there’s no contact
whichuserIDsareyoutracking.SoIsitme,mywife,and
information. And who would I even ask about this? It’s
mykids?...Whatexactlyareyoutracking?Youknow,isit
kindauselessifIdohaveaquestionandIdon’tknowwho
myphone?Isitmywatch?IsitmyiPad?Youknowwhat’s
toaskthem,itkindofseemsalittleuseless.
allreallylinkedtouserID?
Finally, a few users wanted to better understand the
N17 also suggested that specific examples should be
privacy-related implications of using the app and any
listedfor“other”categoriestoeaseconcernsaboutwhat
measures the app was taking to protect their privacy.
might be included.
N14asked,“Howwouldyouseethisoccuroraffectyou?
Like because of having this app, these are the things
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 218
that are happening to you, like you’re seeing targeted focused on lay users who lack technical expertise and
ads, you know. It relates to the user more.” experienced a high level of confusion.
The addition of links or hover text to provide more
readyaccesstodefinitionsoftermsandexamplesmight
5 Discussion aid comprehension.
With the recent rollout of Android privacy labels,
we have observed that definitions of terms such as
Withhundredsofthousandsofmobileappsnowfeatur-
“tracking”arenotcompletelyconsistentontheAndroid
ingprivacylabelsiniOS14,theselabelsareforthefirst
and iOS platforms. It would be helpful if the industry
time available at scale to mobile app users. The intro-
weretoadoptstandardtermsanddefinitionsforprivacy
duction of privacy labels is an important step towards
labels, empirically tested with both developers and lay
empoweringuserstobetterunderstandmobileappdata
users.Anearliermulti-stakeholdereffortledbytheU.S.
practicesthatmattertothem.Atthesametime,intheir
Department of Commerce resulted in a standard set of
current deployment and configuration, these labels are
terms for app transparency, but did not include terms
not as usable or effective as they could be.
describing purposes of use and the terms were not up-
dated after user testing found them to be confusing to
both experts and lay users [7].
5.1 Helping Users Comprehend Complex
App Privacy Practices
5.2 Improving Privacy Labels’ Salience
After examining the labels in our study, almost all par-
ticipants learned new things that they did not know
Even though the privacy labels were introduced in Ap-
beforeandappreciatedtheexistenceofthelabels.Also,
ple’s App Store over a year before our study, the ma-
about half of the participants regarded the privacy la-
jority of our participants were still unaware of them.
belsasusefulandmostreportedbeinglikelytousethem
Ourfindingshowsthatthediscoverabilityofprivacyla-
in the future.
bels on each individual app’s page in the App Store is
However, the labels suffer from confusing terms
low,evenforparticipantswhosaidtheywereconcerned
and definitions (see Section 4.3.2), which led to a
about mobile app privacy. As currently deployed, users
range of misunderstandings. In addition, vague lan-
have to scroll past several sections, including images,
guage (e.g.,“other” category, user content) impede par-
Ratings&Reviews,andWhat’sNew,beforefindingthe
ticipants’ understanding of the actual data practices
AppPrivacysection.Ourfindingsondiscoverabilityare
(see Section 4.3.3). These findings clearly demonstrate
corroborated by prior research that has shown that the
thatApple’sprivacylabelsstillfailtofullysupportuser
locationandtimingofprivacylabelsandindicatorscan
comprehension of the disclosed app privacy practices.
have a large impact on whether users pay attention to
Thelinearstructureofthelabels,whichispresented
them [6, 23, 37].
differently in the compact and detailed views, seems to
Our results suggest the need for more prominent
do a poor job of communicating the multi-dimensional
placement of privacy labels, consistent with recommen-
spaceofdatapracticeswheremultiplecategoriesofdata
dations to display concise privacy notices in salient
(each of which is represented in a multi-level hierarchy)
ways [22]. Alternatively, it would be beneficial to add
areusedformultiplepurposes.Atabularrepresentation
standardized indicators (e.g., links, icons) to signal the
may be more compact and intuitive [40, 60], although
existence of these labels during users’ app installation
thesmallform-factorofmobiledevicesmaypresentde-
decision-making process.
signchallenges.Additionalworkisneededtobetterun-
There is also a need for additional mechanisms to
derstand which label elements are most important to
bring users’ attention to privacy labels for apps that
users so that the compact version might focus on those
users already have on their phones. For example, iOS
elements.
privacy nudges [5] about background app data collec-
Ourfindingsonend-usermisunderstandingsextend
tion, just-in-time app permission requests, and iPhone
recent studies that showed how app developers often
permissionssettinginterfacesarepotentialplacestoin-
struggle with privacy label definitions (e.g., interpreta-
clude links to the privacy labels that would increase
tionoftermssuchas“tracking”)andhowthishampers
both awareness and convenience.
theirabilitytocreateaccuratelabels[32,43].Ourstudy
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 219
5.3 Promoting Privacy Labels’ Role in cation information or picture editing apps that do not
App Privacy Management involve sharing user information with data brokers.
Another key complaint from participants is that the
privacy labels do not offer control options (see Sec- 5.4 Reducing User Burden in App Privacy
tion 4.4.3). Some participants reported being disap- Management
pointed that even after learning the information pre-
sented by the labels, they were not provided with any Ultimately,privacylabelsaredesignedtoempowerusers
actionablestepstheycouldtake.Informationonthela- to quickly find answers to some of their most common
bels is not readily accessible in the permission settings questionsandsavethemthetimeandeffortthatwould
(i.e.,thepermissionmanager)whereusersdecidewhich be required if they had to read the text of privacy
permissions to grant to each app. It would be helpful if policies. Even though privacy labels offer the promise
thepermissionsmanagerincludedtherelevantinforma- of providing users with more succinct and more effec-
tion for each app that appears in the app store label. tive notifications, given the large number of apps on
For instance, the iOS app tracking permission could be each user’s phone, it is unrealistic to expect users to go
incorporated into each label with a toggle control. through the privacy labels for each app one at a time.
In addition, the controls offered to users in the cur- Priorworkusingmachinelearningandnaturallanguage
rent permission manager are not aligned with the in- processing techniques to automatically extract and an-
formation conveyed in the privacy labels. For example, alyze disclosure statements from the text of privacy
whileaprivacylabelmightinformusersthattheirloca- policies [55, 70, 76], including privacy question answer-
tion information might be used by the app for multiple ing functionality [56], has been technically challenging.
purposessuchasfortheapp’scorefunctionalityaswell With the help of these standardized notices, it will be
asforadvertisingpurposes,usersdonothavetheoption more feasible to automatically extract relevant privacy
tograntan appaccess totheir location forone purpose disclosures,whichinturncansupportchatbotfunction-
and not for another (e.g., granting access for the core ality to quickly address users’ questions or refer them
functionality but not for advertising purposes). A few to parts of the labels pertaining to their questions.
participantswerepuzzledbyDoorDashneverrequesting Another way to decrease user burden is to lever-
theContactspermissiondespitelistingitintheprivacy agetheoperatingsystemorapersonalprivacyassistant
label.Evenworse,whenusersdenyaparticularpermis- to act on behalf of users instead of relying on users to
sion,forexample,locationaccess,someappsmightstill manually configure every app setting. Users could be
be able to extract location-related information from IP selectively notified about the types of data collection
addresses,metadataassociatedwithuploadeduserpho- disclosures that they would like to be reminded about
tos, WiFi connections, etc [21, 33]. Such misalignments andonlyshowusersrelevantdisclosureinformationthat
between the disclosures made in privacy nutrition la- they personally care about [45, 67, 75].
belsandprivacycontrolsmadeavailabletouserscreate
another potential source of confusion.
Furthermore, if users have already selected the
6 Conclusion
global setting to turn off app requests to track, it is
unclear whether any of the tracking indicated in the
While iOS app privacy nutrition labels offer the first
“DataUsedtoTrackYou”sectioncouldhappenornot.
wide-scale deployment of standardized short-form pri-
It might be helpful to include a toggle to allow users to
vacy notices, our qualitative interview study highlights
turn off tracking directly in the label and indicate ap-
the barriers that prevent these labels from achieving
propriately whether the user has previously configured
their desired impact when it comes to actually help-
that setting.
ing users. Findings from this work provide the basis for
Privacy labels are shown within the descriptions of
concrete recommendations to refine existing labels, po-
individual apps in the App Store, but no functionality
tentially delivering benefits to millions of smartphone
is provided to enable users to compare apps or look for
users, as well as informing the design and effective de-
equivalentappswithlessinvasiveormoredesirabledata
ployment of similar privacy labels on other platforms
practices. The App Store should enable users to search
(e.g.,Android)andinotherdomains(e.g.,websites,In-
forappsthatmeetcertainprivacycriteria,forexample,
ternet of Things).
filtering similar game apps that do not collect any lo-
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 220
Acknowledgements [10] V.BraunandV.Clarke. Thematicanalysis. APAhandbook
ofresearchmethodsinpsychology,Vol2:Researchdesigns:
Quantitative,qualitative,neuropsychological,andbiological.,
This research has been supported in part by a grant pages57–71,2012.
from the National Science Foundation under its Se- [11] I.C.Campbell. Applewillrequireappstoaddprivacy‘nutri-
cureandTrustworthyComputingprogram(grantCNS- tionlabels’startingdecember8th. TheVerge,November5,
2020.
1801316), an unrestricted research grant from Google
[12] F.H.Cate. Thelimitsofnoticeandchoice. IEEESecurity
under its “privacy-related faculty award” program, and
&Privacy,8(2):59–62,2010.
a gift from Innovators Network Foundation. The US [13] B.X.Chen. Whatwelearnedfromapple’snewprivacy
Government is authorized to reproduce and distribute labels. TheNewYorkTimes,JanJanuary27,2021.
reprints for Governmental purposes notwithstanding [14] R.Chen,F.Fang,T.Norton,A.M.McDonald,and
N.Sadeh. Fightingthefog:Evaluatingtheclarityofpri-
anycopyrightnoticethereon.Theviewsandconclusions
vacydisclosuresintheageofccpa. InProceedingsofthe
containedhereinarethoseoftheauthorsandshouldnot
20thWorkshoponWorkshoponPrivacyintheElectronic
beinterpretedasrepresentingtheofficialpoliciesoren-
Society,pages73–102,2021.
dorsements,eitherexpressedorimpliedofNSF,theUS [15] H.Choi,J.Park,andY.Jung. Theroleofprivacyfatigue
Government, or Google. inonlineprivacybehavior. ComputersinHumanBehavior,
81:42–51,2018.
[16] J.Colnago,Y.Feng,T.Palanivel,S.Pearman,M.Ung,
A.Acquisti,L.F.Cranor,andN.Sadeh. Informingthe
References designofapersonalizedprivacyassistantfortheinternet
ofthings. InProceedingsofthe2020CHIConferenceon
HumanFactorsinComputingSystems,pages1–13,2020.
[1] I.Adjerid,A.Acquisti,L.Brandimarte,andG.Loewenstein.
[17] CongressoftheUnitedStates. HouseofRepresenta-
Sleightsofprivacy:Framing,disclosures,andthelimitsof
tives,CommitteeonEnergyandCommerce,lettertoTim
transparency. InProceedingsoftheNinthSymposiumon
Cook. https://energycommerce.house.gov/newsroom/press-
UsablePrivacyandSecurity,SOUPS’13,NewYork,NY,
releases/ec-chairs-question-accuracy-of-apple-s-new-app-
USA,2013.AssociationforComputingMachinery.
privacy-labels,Feb9,2021.
[2] A.I.Antón,J.B.Earp,Q.He,W.Stufflebeam,D.Bolchini,
[18] L.F.Cranor. Necessarybutnotsufficient:Standardized
andC.Jensen. Financialprivacypoliciesandtheneedfor
mechanismsforprivacynoticeandchoice. J.onTelecomm.
standardization. IEEESecurity&privacy,2(2):36–45,2004.
&HighTech.L.,10:273,2012.
[3] Apple. Appprivacydetailsontheappstore. https:
[19] L.F.Cranor,P.Guduru,andM.Arjula. Userinterfacesfor
//developer.apple.com/app-store/app-privacy-details/,
privacyagents. ACMTransactionsonComputer-Human
2021.
Interaction(TOCHI),13(2):135–178,2006.
[4] Apple. Privacydefinitionsandexamples. https://apps.apple.
[20] A.Das,M.Degeling,D.Smullen,andN.Sadeh. Personal-
com/story/id1539235847,2021.
izedprivacyassistantsfortheinternetofthings:providing
[5] Apple. AboutprivacyandlocationservicesiniOSandiPa-
userswithnoticeandchoice. IEEEPervasiveComputing,
dOS. https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT203033,February
17(3):35–46,2018.
3,2022.
[21] Z.Doffman. FacebookTracksYouriPhoneLocation—This
[6] R.Balebako,F.Schaub,I.Adjerid,A.Acquisti,andL.F.
IsHowToStopIt. Forbes,MayMay22,2021.
Cranor. Theimpactoftimingonthesalienceofsmart-
[22] N.Ebert,K.AlexanderAckermann,andB.Scheppler.
phoneappprivacynotices. InCCSWorkshoponSecurity
Bolderisbetter:Raisinguserawarenessthroughsalientand
andPrivacyinSmartphonesandMobileDevices(SPSM).
conciseprivacynotices. InProceedingsofthe2021CHI
AssociationforComputingMachinery,October2015.
ConferenceonHumanFactorsinComputingSystems,pages
[7] R.Balebako,R.Shay,andL.F.Cranor. Isyourinseama
1–12,2021.
biometric?acasestudyontheroleofusabilitystudiesin
[23] S.Egelman,J.Tsai,L.F.Cranor,andA.Acquisti. Timing
developingpublicpolicy. InWorkshoponUsableSecurity,
iseverything?theeffectsoftimingandplacementofonline
volume23,2014.
privacyindicators. InProceedingsoftheSIGCHIConference
[8] V.BannihattiKumar,R.Iyengar,N.Nisal,Y.Feng,
onHumanFactorsinComputingSystems,pages319–328,
H.Habib,P.Story,S.Cherivirala,M.Hagan,L.Cranor,
2009.
S.Wilson,F.Schaub,andN.Sadeh. Findingachoiceina
[24] P.Emami-Naeini. InformingPrivacyandSecurityDecision
haystack:Automaticextractionofopt-outstatementsfrom
MakinginanIoTWorld. PhDthesis,CarnegieMellonUni-
privacypolicytext. InProceedingsofTheWebConference
versity,2020.
2020,WWW’20,page1943–1954,NewYork,NY,USA,
[25] P.Emami-Naeini,Y.Agarwal,L.F.Cranor,andH.Hibshi.
2020.AssociationforComputingMachinery.
Asktheexperts:WhatshouldbeonanIoTprivacyand
[9] J.L.Boyles,A.Smith,andM.Madden. Privacyanddata
securitylabel? In2020IEEESymposiumonSecurityand
managementonmobiledevices. PewInternet&American
Privacy(SP),pages447–464.IEEE,2020.
LifeProject,4:1–19,2012.
[26] P.Emami-Naeini,H.Dixon,Y.Agarwal,andL.F.Cranor.
ExploringhowprivacyandsecurityfactorintoIoTdevice
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 221
purchasebehavior. InProceedingsofthe2019CHICon- [40] P.G.Kelley,L.Cesca,J.Bresee,andL.F.Cranor. Stan-
ferenceonHumanFactorsinComputingSystems,CHI’19, dardizingprivacynotices:Anonlinestudyofthenutrition
page1–12,NewYork,NY,USA,2019.AssociationforCom- labelapproach. InProceedingsoftheSIGCHIConfer-
putingMachinery. enceonHumanFactorsinComputingSystems,CHI’10,
[27] B.Fabian,T.Ermakova,andT.Lentz. Large-scaleread- page1573–1582,NewYork,NY,USA,2010.Associationfor
abilityanalysisofprivacypolicies. InProceedingsofthe ComputingMachinery.
InternationalConferenceonWebIntelligence,WI’17,page [41] P.G.Kelley,L.F.Cranor,andN.Sadeh. Privacyaspart
18–25,NewYork,NY,USA,2017.AssociationforComput- oftheappdecision-makingprocess. InProceedingsofthe
ingMachinery. SIGCHIconferenceonhumanfactorsincomputingsystems,
[28] FederalTradeCommission. Mobileprivacydisclo- pages3393–3402,2013.
sures:Buildingtrustthroughtransparency(FTCstaff [42] T.Li,E.B.Neundorfer,Y.Agarwal,andJ.I.Hong. Honey-
report). https://www.ftc.gov/reports/mobile-privacy- suckle:Annotation-guidedcodegenerationofin-appprivacy
disclosures-building-trust-through-transparency-federal- notices. Proc.ACMInteract.Mob.WearableUbiquitous
trade-commission,February2013. Technol.,5(3),sep2021.
[29] FederalTradeCommission. Internetofthings:Privacy& [43] T.Li,K.Reiman,Y.Agarwal,L.F.Cranor,andJ.I.Hong.
securityinaconnectedworld(FTCstaffreport). https:// Understandingchallengesfordeveloperstocreateaccurate
www.ftc.gov/reports/federal-trade-commission-staff-report- privacynutritionlabels. InCHIConferenceonHumanFac-
november-2013-workshop-entitled-internet-things,January torsinComputingSystems,CHI’22,NewYork,NY,USA,
2015. 2022.AssociationforComputingMachinery.
[30] Y.Feng,Y.Yao,andN.Sadeh. Adesignspaceforprivacy [44] Y.Li,D.Chen,T.Li,Y.Agarwal,L.F.Cranor,andJ.I.
choices:Towardsmeaningfulprivacycontrolintheinternet Hong. UnderstandingiOSprivacynutritionlabels:Anex-
ofthings. InProceedingsofthe2021CHIConferenceon ploratorylarge-scaleanalysisofappstoredata. InCHI
HumanFactorsinComputingSystems,pages1–16,2021. ConferenceonHumanFactorsinComputingSystemsEx-
[31] G.A.Fowler. Icheckedapple’snewprivacy‘nutritionlabels.’ tendedAbstracts,CHIEA’22,NewYork,NY,USA,2022.
manywerefalse. TheWashingtonPost,January,292021. AssociationforComputingMachinery.
[32] J.Gardner,Y.Feng,K.Reiman,Z.Lin,A.Jain,and [45] B.Liu,M.S.Andersen,F.Schaub,H.Almuhimedi,
N.Sadeh. Helpingmobileapplicationdeveloperscreate S.Zhang,N.Sadeh,A.Acquisti,andY.Agarwal. Followmy
accurateprivacylabels. InternationalWorkshoponPrivacy recommendations:Apersonalizedprivacyassistantformo-
Engineering(IWPE’22),2022. bileapppermissions. InProceedingsoftheTwelfthUSENIX
[33] S.Gibbs. GooglehasbeentrackingAndroidusersevenwith ConferenceonUsablePrivacyandSecurity,SOUPS’16,
locationservicesturnedoff. TheGuardian,Nov222017. page27–41,USA,2016.USENIXAssociation.
[34] S.E.Gindin. Nobodyreadsyourprivacypolicyoronline [46] A.M.McDonaldandL.F.Cranor. Thecostofreading
contract:LessonslearnedandquestionsraisedbytheFTC’s privacypolicies. I/S:AJournalofLawandPolicyforthe
actionagainstsears. Nw.J.Tech.&Intell.Prop.,8:1,2009. InformationSociety,4:543,2008.
[35] J.Gluck,F.Schaub,A.Friedman,H.Habib,N.Sadeh,L.F. [47] A.M.McDonald,R.W.Reeder,P.G.Kelley,andL.F.
Cranor,andY.Agarwal. Howshortistooshort?implica- Cranor. Acomparativestudyofonlineprivacypoliciesand
tionsoflengthandframingontheeffectivenessofprivacy formats. InI.GoldbergandM.J.Atallah,editors,Privacy
notices. InTwelfthSymposiumonUsablePrivacyandSecu- EnhancingTechnologies,pages37–55,Berlin,Heidelberg,
rity(SOUPS2016),pages321–340,2016. 2009.SpringerBerlinHeidelberg.
[36] H.Habib,S.Pearman,J.Wang,Y.Zou,A.Acquisti,L.F. [48] N.McDonald,S.Schoenebeck,andA.Forte. Reliability
Cranor,N.Sadeh,andF.Schaub. “It’sascavengerhunt”: andinter-raterreliabilityinqualitativeresearch:Normsand
Usabilityofwebsites’opt-outanddatadeletionchoices. In guidelinesforcscwandhcipractice. Proc.ACMHum.-
Proceedingsofthe2020CHIConferenceonHumanFactors Comput.Interact.,3(CSCW),nov2019.
inComputingSystems,pages1–12,2020. [49] Y.Meier,J.Schäwel,andN.C.Krämer. Theshorterthe
[37] H.Habib,Y.Zou,Y.Yao,A.Acquisti,L.Cranor,J.Rei- better?effectsofprivacypolicylengthononlineprivacy
denberg,N.Sadeh,andF.Schaub. Toggles,dollarsigns, decision-making. MediaandCommunication,8(2):291–301,
andtriangles:Howto(in)effectivelyconveyprivacychoices 2020.
withiconsandlinktexts. InProceedingsofthe2021CHI [50] G.R.Milne,M.J.Culnan,andH.Greene. Alongitudinal
ConferenceonHumanFactorsinComputingSystems,CHI assessmentofonlineprivacynoticereadability. Journalof
’21,NewYork,NY,USA,2021.AssociationforComputing PublicPolicy&Marketing,25(2):238–249,2006.
Machinery. [51] MozillaWiki. Privacyicons. https://wiki.mozilla.org/
[38] C.B.JacksonandY.Wang. Addressingtheprivacyparadox Privacy_Icons,June2011.
throughpersonalizedprivacynotifications. Proceedingsof [52] A.Oeldorf-HirschandJ.A.Obar. Overwhelming,impor-
theACMoninteractive,mobile,wearableandubiquitous tant,irrelevant:Termsofserviceandprivacypolicyreading
technologies,2(2):1–25,2018. amongolderadults. InProceedingsofthe10thInternational
[39] P.G.Kelley,J.Bresee,L.F.Cranor,andR.W.Reeder. ConferenceonSocialMediaandSociety,SMSociety’19,
A“nutritionlabel”forprivacy. InProceedingsofthe5th page166–173,NewYork,NY,USA,2019.Associationfor
SymposiumonUsablePrivacyandSecurity,pages1–12, ComputingMachinery.
2009. [53] J.Porter. Googleplaystore’sappprivacylabelsstartap-
pearing. TheVerge,April26,2022.
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 222
[54] A.Rao,F.Schaub,N.Sadeh,A.Acquisti,andR.Kang. [67] D.Smullen,Y.Feng,S.A.Zhang,andN.Sadeh. The
Expectingtheunexpected:Understandingmismatchedpri- bestofbothworlds:Mitigatingtrade-offsbetweenaccuracy
vacyexpectationsonline. InTwelfthSymposiumonUsable anduserburdenincapturingmobileappprivacyprefer-
PrivacyandSecurity(SOUPS2016),pages77–96,Denver, ences. ProceedingsonPrivacyEnhancingTechnologies,
CO,June2016.USENIXAssociation. 2020(1):195–215,2020.
[55] A.Ravichander,A.W.Black,T.Norton,S.Wilson,and [68] C.Spensky,J.Stewart,A.Yerukhimovich,R.Shay,A.Tra-
N.Sadeh. Breakingdownwallsoftext:Howcannlpbenefit chtenberg,R.Housley,andR.K.Cunningham. SoK:Privacy
consumerprivacy? InProceedingsofthe59thAnnualMeet- onmobiledevices–it’scomplicated. ProceedingsonPrivacy
ingoftheAssociationforComputationalLinguisticsandthe EnhancingTechnologies,2016(3):96–116,2016.
11thInternationalJointConferenceonNaturalLanguage [69] N.Steinfeld. “Iagreetothetermsandconditions”:(How)
Processing(Volume1:LongPapers),pages4125–4140, dousersreadprivacypoliciesonline?Aneye-trackingexperi-
2021. ment. Computersinhumanbehavior,55:992–1000,2016.
[56] A.Ravichander,A.W.Black,S.Wilson,T.Norton,and [70] W.B.Tesfay,P.Hofmann,T.Nakamura,S.Kiyomoto,
N.Sadeh. Questionansweringforprivacypolicies:Combin- andJ.Serna. Privacyguide:towardsanimplementation
ingcomputationalandlegalperspectives. InProceedingsof oftheEUGDPRoninternetprivacypolicyevaluation. In
the2019ConferenceonEmpiricalMethodsinNaturalLan- ProceedingsoftheFourthACMInternationalWorkshopon
guageProcessingandthe9thInternationalJointConference SecurityandPrivacyAnalytics,pages15–21,2018.
onNaturalLanguageProcessing(EMNLP-IJCNLP),pages [71] M.D.C.Tongco. Purposivesamplingasatoolforinfor-
4947–4958.AssociationforComputationalLinguistics,Nov. mantselection. EthnobotanyResearchandApplications,
2019. 5:147–158,2007.
[57] J.R.Reidenberg,J.Bhatia,T.D.Breaux,andT.B.Nor- [72] M.W.Vail,J.B.Earp,andA.I.Antón. Anempiricalstudy
ton. Ambiguityinprivacypoliciesandtheimpactofreg- ofconsumerperceptionsandcomprehensionofwebsite
ulation. TheJournalofLegalStudies,45(S2):S163–S190, privacypolicies. IEEETransactionsonEngineeringManage-
2016. ment,55(3):442–454,2008.
[58] J.R.Reidenberg,T.Breaux,L.F.Cranor,B.French, [73] T.Vila,R.Greenstadt,andD.Molnar. Whywecan’tbe
A.Grannis,J.T.Graves,F.Liu,A.McDonald,T.B.Nor- botheredtoreadprivacypolicies. InEconomicsofinforma-
ton,andR.Ramanath. Disagreeableprivacypolicies:Mis- tionsecurity,pages143–153.Springer,2004.
matchesbetweenmeaningandusers’understanding. Berke- [74] K.-P.L.Vu,V.Chambers,F.P.Garcia,B.Creekmur,J.Su-
leyTech.LJ,30:39,2015. laitis,D.Nelson,R.Pierce,andR.W.Proctor. Howusers
[59] J.R.Reidenberg,N.C.Russell,V.Herta,W.Sierra- readandcomprehendprivacypolicies. InSymposiumon
Rocafort,andT.B.Norton. Trustworthyprivacyindicators: HumanInterfaceandtheManagementofInformation,pages
Grades,labels,certifications,anddashboards. Washington 802–811.Springer,2007.
UniversityLawReview,96:1409,2018. [75] P.Wijesekera,J.Reardon,I.Reyes,L.Tsai,J.-W.Chen,
[60] D.Reinhardt,J.Borchard,andJ.Hurtienne. Visualinter- N.Good,D.Wagner,K.Beznosov,andS.Egelman. Con-
activeprivacypolicy:Thebetterchoice? InProceedingsof textualizingprivacydecisionsforbetterprediction(andpro-
the2021CHIConferenceonHumanFactorsinComputing tection). InProceedingsofthe2018CHIConferenceon
Systems,CHI’21,NewYork,NY,USA,2021.Association HumanFactorsinComputingSystems,CHI’18,page1–13,
forComputingMachinery. NewYork,NY,USA,2018.AssociationforComputingMa-
[61] F.Schaub,R.Balebako,A.L.Durity,andL.F.Cranor. chinery.
Adesignspaceforeffectiveprivacynotices. InEleventh [76] S.Zimmeck,P.Story,D.Smullen,A.Ravichander,
SymposiumOnUsablePrivacyandSecurity(SOUPS2015), Z.Wang,J.Reidenberg,N.C.Russell,andN.Sadeh. Maps:
pages1–17,Ottawa,July2015.USENIXAssociation. Scalingprivacycomplianceanalysistoamillionapps. Pro-
[62] F.Schaub,B.Könings,andM.Weber. Context-adaptive ceedingsonPrivacyEnhancingTechnologies,2019(3):66–86,
privacy:Leveragingcontextawarenesstosupportprivacy 2019.
decisionmaking. IEEEPervasiveComputing,14(1):34–43,
2015.
[63] Secretary’sAdvisoryCommitteeonAutomatedPersonal
DataSystems. Records,Computers,andtheRightsof
Citizens:Report. USDepartmentofHealth,Education&
Welfare,1973.
[64] R.I.Singh,M.Sumeeth,andJ.Miller. Evaluatingthe
readabilityofprivacypoliciesinmobileenvironments. In-
ternationalJournalofMobileHumanComputerInteraction
(IJMHCI),3(1):55–78,2011.
[65] R.I.Singh,M.Sumeeth,andJ.Miller. Auser-centriceval-
uationofthereadabilityofprivacypoliciesinpopularweb
sites. InformationSystemsFrontiers,13(4):501–514,2011.
[66] R.H.SloanandR.Warner. Beyondnoticeandchoice:Pri-
vacy,norms,andconsent. TheJournalofHighTechnology
Law,14:370,2014.
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 223
Interview Scripts
Appendix
– Introduction: Thank you for meeting with me to-
Screening Questionnaire
day. This interview is being conducted for research
at Carnegie Mellon University to better understand
– You can check your iOS version by going to Set-
how people interact with mobile apps in the Apple
tings>General>About,andlookingat“SoftwareVer-
AppStore.Wewillaskyoutoanswersomequestions
sion”. Please type in the version number exactly as it
and view some information in the App Store. This
appears in the “Software Version” section. [free-text]
sessionshouldtakenomorethan1hourtocomplete,
– I am at least 18 years old, reside in the US, and am
and will be recorded via Zoom. Upon completion of
a regular user of an iPhone with iOS 14 or above.
thestudy,youwillreceive$25intheformofanAma-
– Please select the most applicable answer. I down-
zon Gift Card that will be sent to you via email. You
loaded one or more apps from the app store .
will be asked to share your iPhone’s screen via Zoom
– In the past week – In the past month – In the past
at some point during the session to enable us to fol-
3 months – More than 3 months ago [disqualified]
low what you are doing on your phone as you visit
– Roughly how many new apps have you downloaded
the App Store.
from the app store yourself over the past 3 months?
– Please answer our questions truthfully and as thor-
– None [disqualified] – Somewhere between 1 and 10
oughly as possible. If in doubt, feel free to ask me for
– Likely more than 10
clarificationatanypointduringtheinterview.Iwant
– Have you ever done any of the following in the past?
toemphasizethattherearenorightorwronganswers.
Please select all that apply.
Our goal is simply to understand your opinions and
– Uninstalled or stopped using an app or service be-
thoughtprocesses.Youmaystoptheinterviewatany
cause of the types of data the app collects about
point, or choose to not answer a question, or take a
you or how that data is used
breakifyouwish.Pleasedonotrevealanyprivateor
– Reviewed an app’s privacy settings, namely what
personally-identifiable information about yourself or
data it requests access to
othersduringtheinterview.Ifyouaccidentallyreveal
– Read (partially or fully) an app’s privacy policy or
any personal information, please let me know so that
end-user license agreement
I can remove it from the recording. Do you have any
– Used a VPN or Tor for non-work-related reasons
questions at this time?
on your phone or other device
– Part 1: General Questions about App Usage
– Decided not to download an app after looking at
– For how long have you been using an iPhone?
its privacy information in the app store
(Prompt: Any particular reason why you chose an
– None of the above
iPhone?)
– What is your age? [free-text]
– To the best of your knowledge, approximately how
– What is your gender? – Male – Female – Non-binary
many apps do you have on your iPhone? (esti-
– Prefer to self disclose
mates are expected) [After getting the estimate,
– What is your occupation? [free-text]
give them instructions to look up the actual num-
– Pleaseenteryouremail.Youremailwillonlybeused
ber Settings>General>About>Applications]
to contact you to set up a time for the study and
– Whenwasthelasttimethatyoudownloadedanew
to pay you, if you are selected to participate in this
app on your phone?
study. If you are not selected, your responses to the
– Could you describe a recent experience when you
survey (including your email address) will be deleted
decidedtodownloadanapponyourphone,starting
within 3 days of the completion of recruitment for
from how you discovered the new app all the way
thestudy.Youremailaddresswillnotbesharedwith
to what happened when you used it for the first
anyone and will be stored separately from your other
time? (to the extent they went all the way - some
study data.
peoplecanstophalfwayanddecidenottosetupan
accountormayevenchangetheirmindandremove
the app)
– Whataresomeofthetypicalfactorsthatinfluence
whichappsyoudownloadonyourphone?(Prompt:
appreviews,brand,ratings,security,ranking,data
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 224
privacy, your friends) Have you ever compared dif- whynot?Doyoutypicallylookforthisinformation
ferent apps before deciding which one to down- before downloading a new app?)
load (Prompt: what types of things have you com- – Please take some time to read this “App Privacy”
pared?)? Was data privacy ever a reason that you section. What do you think of the section you are
chose or did not choose an app? seeing? What do you think this section is for? (im-
– Part 2 : Information Seeking pression testing)
– Haveyoueverwonderedwhatinformationappscol- – Please click the “See Details” at the top right cor-
lect about you? ner and take some time to read this as well. Let’s
– [If they say they have] How would you go about gothroughtheappprivacyinformationsectionyou
findingoutwhatinformationanappcollectsabout justlookedatsystematically.Pleaseanswerthefol-
you and what the app does with the information? lowing questions based on what you see in this
– [follow-up] Have you ever actually done that? “App Privacy” section:
– [If they say they have not] If you were to look for – Starting at the top where it says "Data used to
this, how could you possibly find out what infor- Track you", what do you think “data used to track
mation an app collects about you and what the you” means?
app does with that information? Prompt: media? – Do you know what (online) tracking is?
friends/family? experts? privacy policies/EULA? – What do you think of it? Do you find it to be a
permission settings? Other? Do you think those usefulpracticeorareyoupossiblyconcernedabout
sources are reliable? App store? Have you ever it? Please explain.
looked – In this section there is information about “identi-
– Part 3: Label Comprehension — 2 Scenarios fiers.” Do you know what an identifier is? If yes,
– [Instructions] This section requires you to share what are (other) examples of identifiers?
yourscreenwithusviazoom.Whichdeviceareyou – What do you think of the fact that this app may
on, your iPhone or your desktop/laptop? Please use your identifiers to track you across apps and
open the App Store app on your phone before you websitesownedbyothercompanies?Doyoufindit
start sharing your screen. Please silence your no- tobeausefulpracticeorareyoupossiblyconcerned
tifications and remove anything confidential from about it? Please explain.
your screen. [If participant is not on iOS 15, show – In this section there is information about “prod-
instructions]PleaseenableDoNotDisturbonyour uct interaction” under “usage data.” Do you know
device to prevent unexpected notifications by go- whatproductinteractionentails?Howdoyouthink
ing to “Settings”>“Focus” and then “Do Not Dis- Doordash tracks you via product interaction(s)?
turb” and turn on the top toggle. [Remind if on – [If the user is looking at Doordash]
their phone using the following sentence] Please – What do you think of it? Do you find it to be a
notethatwewillbeableseesnapshotsofyourapps usefulpracticeorareyoupossiblyconcernedabout
whenyouswitchfromZoomtotheAppStoreapp. it? Please explain.
So please make sure that there is nothing sensitive – [Tracking] Do you think Doordash is allowed to
displayed on your screen before you start sharing share your location with a third-party company
your screen. that would combine your location obtained from
– [Showinstructionsonscreenifneeded]Great!Now Doordash and location data from other apps and
that you are sharing your screen. websites to build a history of your whereabouts?
– Could you search for the [Doordash or Chipotle] – What do you think of it? Do you find it to be a
app? Are you familiar with this app? Could you usefulpracticeorareyoupossiblyconcernedabout
describewhatthisappdoes?Haveyouused[APP] it? Please explain.
before? [If yes] how often do you use it? – [Tracking] Do you think Doordash uses data col-
– Please scroll down to the “App Privacy” section. lected from other companies (including websites,
Do you remember ever seeing or reading an “App apps, and offline services) to decide what ads to
Privacy” section like this one before? (follow-up: if show you? If so, what data do you think the app
yes,askabouttheirexperiencewithprivacylabels; uses? How can you tell? What do you think of it?
when did you last see one? For which app? What Do you find it to be a useful practice or are you
wasthecontext?Didyoufindtheinformationuse- possibly concerned about it? Please explain.
ful? Did you end up downloading the app? If not,
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 225
– Ifyouscrolldownabityoushouldseeaheadingfor means?Whatdoyouthinkofalltheotherpurposes
“data linked to you,” previously there was another beyond app functionality?
heading for “data used to track you”. What is the – What do you think of it? Do you find it to be a
difference between “data used to track you” and usefulpracticeorareyoupossiblyconcernedabout
“data linked to you”? it? Please explain.
– ThenextheadingisThird-partyadvertising.Ifyou – If you keep scrolling you will see “other purposes,”
scroll down a bit you should see another heading what do you think about your contacts being used
Developer’sAdvertisingorMarketing.Whatdoyou for “other purposes”? Do you find it to be a useful
think those headings denote? Do you think that practice or are you possibly concerned about it?
these headings refer to different practices and, if Please explain.
so, what are the differences? – Is there any information here that you do not un-
– What do you think “third-party advertising” derstand?
means? – Isthereanyinformationthatisnotpresentbutyou
– Do you know what targeted advertising is? would like to know about?
– Do you find it to be a useful practice or are you – [For participants assigned to the Chipotle]
possiblyconcernedaboutit?Pleaseexplain.(There – Let’s go through the app privacy information sec-
is no right or wrong answer. We’re just curious to tion you just looked at systematically. Please an-
understand how you feel about these practices) swerthefollowingquestionsbasedonwhatyousee
– DoyouknowwhatDeveloper’sAdvertisingorMar- in this “App Privacy” section: Starting at the top
ketingmeans?Whatdoyouthinkisthedifference, where it says "Data not linked to you", what do
if there is, between “third-party advertising” and you think “data not linked to you” means? The
“developer’s advertising or marketing”? next heading is Analytics. If you scroll down a bit
– BelowthatyouwillseeBrowsingHistory.Whatdo you should see another heading App Functionality.
you think “browsing history” covers? What do you think those headings denote?
– Doyouthinkbrowsinghistoryincludescontentthe – [Analytics] Do you think Chipotle uses data to un-
userhasviewedthatisnotpartoftheapp,suchas derstandoranalyzeyourbehavior(e.g.,todevelop
websites? newfeatures,tomeasureaudiencecharacteristics)?
– Areyouconcernedornotconcernedaboutthisdata If so, what data do you think the app uses?
being collected? – How do you think Chipotle collects “contact info”
– Ifyoukeepscrollingyouwillsee“otherdata”,what such as “Name” and “Email address” without the
do you think “other data” include? data being linked to you?
– If you scroll down you will see the Analytics head- – Do you think Chipotle collects any data that is
ing. What do you think your data being used for linked to you? For example, when you place an or-
“Analytics” purposes means? der?
– What do you think of it? Do you find it to be a – Do you think this App Privacy section includes all
usefulpracticeorareyoupossiblyconcernedabout thedataandalltheusageofyourdatathatChipo-
it? Please explain. tle collects about you? Please explain.
– [Analytics]DoyouthinkDoordashusesdatatoun- – Is there any information here that you do not un-
derstandoranalyzeyourbehavior(e.g.,todevelop derstand?
newfeatures,tomeasureaudiencecharacteristics)? – Isthereanyinformationthatisnotpresentbutyou
If so, what data do you think the app uses? What would like to know about?
do you think of it?/How do you feel about it? Do – Perceptions of Privacy Labels
you find it to be a useful practice or are you possi- – In general, how do you feel about the information
bly concerned about it? Please explain. providedhere(i.e.,theinformationunderthe“App
– If you scroll down you will see the Product Per- Privacy” section)?
sonalization heading. Do you know what that is? – Do you find this type of information useful?
Do you find it to be a useful practice or are you Why/Whynot?Doyoufinditeasytounderstand?
possibly concerned about it? Please explain. Do you find it well organized?
– If you keep scrolling down you will see the head- – Doyoufeelyouunderstandmostoftheinformation
ing “app functionality,” What do you think your provided in that section?
data being used for “App Functionality” purposes
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 226
– Didyoulearnaboutthingsyoudidn’tknoworyou – Wrap-upAlright,Ihaveaskedalltheinterviewques-
pretty much knew everything in that section? Or tions. Is there anything else you would like to say?
somewhere in-between? Any questions at this point? Or any comments? Now
– Whatdoyoulikeordislikeaboutthatsection?How Iwillbeaskingyoutofilloutashortsurvey.Thesur-
can this section be improved? veylinkispastedinsidethechat.Youwillreceivethe
– Do you think you might pay attention to this in- e-gift card via email soon after you complete the sur-
formationlateroryouwillprobablynotbelooking vey. Feel free to disconnect now. Thank you so much
at this? for your participation!
– [If yes] Would this information influence your deci-
sion to download the app one way or another?
– [Ifno]Whydoyouthinkyouwillnotbelookingat Post-Interview Questions
this?
– [ifparticipantsawlabelsbefore]Afterdownloading – How much control do you think you have over the
anapp,didyoueverfindyourselfgoingbacktothis data that companies collect about you?
section in the app store? – Howconcernedareyou,ifatall,abouthowcompanies
– Under what circumstances? For what reason? are using the data they collect about you?
(Prompt: to answer privacy questions you might – How much do you feel you understand what compa-
have had) niesaredoingwiththedatatheycollectedaboutyou?
– Ifyouhadtoguess,whodoyouthinkprovidedthe Prompt: a great deal, some, very little, nothing
information under “App Privacy”? – What is the highest level of education you have com-
– [Follow-up] Do you believe that this information is pleted?
provided directly by Apple or vetted by Apple? Or – Haveyoueverheldajoborreceivedadegreeincom-
by the app developers? Why/why not? puter science or any related technology field?
– If it’s the latter, do you believe that it has been – Which of the following best describes your employ-
reviewed by Apple? ment status?
– [Follow-up] Do you believe it is done manually or – Privacy behavior: Have you used the following tools
the result of some automated processing? in the past year? Please select all that apply.
– [if participant saw labels before] If you ever looked
at this type of information in the past, did you
ever have that question in mind? Who did you as- Codebook
sume provided the information in the labels? Did
you think the information could be trusted? Code categories are shown in bold type, with the list
– Do you think the information provided in this sec- of codes in that category following. For a more de-
tion is reliable? How likely are you to trust this tailed version with code descriptions, see https://osf.
information? Why/why not? io/47kzt/.
[Remind participants to stop sharing their screen] App Privacy
– Part 5: General Privacy Concerns / Behaviors
– Have you ever read the privacy policy (partially or – iPhone usage length: less than 5 years, at least 5
fully)ofamobileapp?Whatdoyouthinkofthem? and less than 10 years, at least 10 years
Prompt: When you read a privacy policy, what do – Why use iPhone
you typically do? How much do you typically un- – iPhone # of apps estimate: ≤40, 50–100, >300
derstand the privacy policies you read? – iPhone actual # of apps: <50, 50–100, 101–200,
– Have you ever regretted downloading or using an >200
appbecauseofdataprivacyissues?[Follow-up]:Did – Recent app download time: within 1 day, within
you take any further actions because of these re- a week, within a month
grets such as changing your privacy settings, unin- – App download process: search keywords in App
stalling the app or limiting your use of it? Store, search in Google, download multiple apps and
– In the past, have you ever had your personal data then delete unwanted, learn specific app from ads,
misused or compromised in general? If so, what learn specific app from recommendations, generally
happened?Whataboutdatarelatedtoappsorweb know the app the download when in the App Store
services?
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 227
– Factors considered when downloading – Product interaction: understanding, confusion,
apps: cost, reviews, ratings, utility, descriptions, mixed feelings
brand/trust, rewards program, space/battery, num- – Browsing or search history: understanding, con-
ber of downloads or reviews, bugs fusion, concerned, not concerned
– Concerns about app privacy: yes, no, consider – Other category: understanding, confusion, con-
privacy before downloading, remove app out of pri- cerned, not concerned
vacy concern, privacy concern for newly downloaded – User content: concern, confusion
apps, privacy concern about Facebook related apps, – Contacts used by DoorDash for other pur-
privacy concern only for important apps poses: concerned, mixed
– Whether have questions about app data col- – Jargon confusion: usage data, crash data, diagnos-
lection yes, no, specific question tics, coarse location, purchase
– Where to learn about app data collection – App has no need for listed data on label
Google,termsofservices/privacypolicies,iPhonepri- – Label first impression
vacysettings,iPhoneprivacyprompts,in-appprivacy – Confusion about label structure
settings, the App Store, media, downloaded data – Confusion about label sections
– Looking for app privacy in the App Store: no – Label useful: yes, no
– Seen app privacy section in the App Store be- – Understood most of the labels?: yes, no, in-
fore: no, yes, yes but only aware of its existence between
– DoorDash app used before: yes, no – Learned new things from labels?: yes, no, in-
– Chipotle app used before: yes, no between
– Future use of labels: yes, no, depends
Label Understanding & Perception – Labels impacting later decision to download
apps: yes, no, depends
– Tracking: understanding, confusion, concerned, not
– Labels include all app data collection prac-
concerned, useful, not useful, mixed feelings
tices: yes, no, not sure
– Tracking by identifiers:concerned,notconcerned,
– What participants like about the labels: exis-
mixed feelings
tence, increased transparency, other
– Tracking implies aggregating location data:
– What participants dislike about the labels:
yes, clear from the label, not clear from the label,
vagueness, long and/or repetitive, use of jargon
concerned
– How to improve the labels or what partici-
– Tracking used for advertising:yes,clearfromthe
pants would want the labels to include: add
label, not clear from the label
accessibledefinitions,addspecificandcontextualized
– Data linked to you:understanding,confusion,use-
examples of data collected, add privacy controls, add
ful
whether the data is being shared or sold and/or with
– Difference between data used to track you and
whom, add data retention, explain in details what
data linked to you: understanding, confusion
they do with the data and/or justification, add how
– Data not linked to you: understanding, confusion
dataprivacyisprotected,arrangepurposesinatable
– Contactunderdatanotlinkedtoyou:confusion
format, add contact info for further questions, other
– Targeted advertising: understanding, concerned,
– Do participants trust the labels? yes, no, de-
not concerned, mixed feelings, useful
pends, reason for yes, reason for no
– Third party or developer advertising: under-
– Labels provided by: app developers, Apple, both
standing, confusion
Apple and app developers, not sure
– App functionality: understanding, confusion, use-
– Labels reviewed or verified by Apple? neither,
ful
only reviewed, verified, not sure
– Analytics: understanding, confusion, useful, not
– If labels are reviewed, how? automated process-
concerned
ing, manual review, both
– Product Personalization: understanding, confu-
– Like Compact label
sion, useful, concerned
– Participants expect labels to be interactive
– Identifiers: understanding, confusion, concerned
– Participants think labels are required
– Device id: understanding, confusion
– Labels lack oversight or guarantee
HowUsableAreiOSAppPrivacyLabels? 228
Privacy Attitudes and Experiences
– Resignation
– Trade-off
– Not concerned about privacy: generally uncon-
cerned, nothing to hide, low perceived risk, privacy
as a secondary task
– Privacy concern:generic,desiretoremainpersonal
autonomy, feeling watched, risks
– Usable privacy: user burden high, frustration with
privacy policies
– Privacy protection behavior
– More concerned after reading labels
– Past experience with personal data being mis-
used or compromised? no, data breaches, fraud-
ulent activity on bank accounts, identity theft, ac-
counts hacked
– Aware of turning off tracking on iPhone: yes,
no, confusion
