This is the Preprint Version.
The following publication Ngai, C. S. B., Singh, R. G., & Kwan, B. S. C. (2020). A comparative study of the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality
in corporate leaders’ messages of global corporations in the US and China. English for Specific Purposes, 60, 65-84 is available at
https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.esp.2020.05.002.
This is the preprint of the paper
A comparative study of the linguistic manifestations of
intertextuality in corporate leaders’ messages of global
corporations in the US and PRC
Abstract
Corporate leader messages posted by senior management play a pivotal role in building
relationships with stakeholders in the professional corporate communication context and such
messages often explicitly or implicitly draw on prior texts to establish credibility. This mixed
methods study seeks to analyse how intertextuality is manifested linguistically through the
types of intertextual links, sources of reference and move structure in leaders’ messages of
Fortune Global 500 corporations in the United States and People’s Republic of China. The
findings indicate that intertextuality is a prevalent feature of all leader messages. However,
striking cross-cultural observations are noted in that the types of intertextuality vary since
corporations in the PRC often draw on direct quotes in messages whereas indirect quotes are
preferred by corporations from the US. In addition, intertextuality in leaders’ messages reveals
ideological variations in that leaders from corporations in the PRC make explicit intertextual
references to texts on government policies while corporations from the US have a tendency to
refer to social responsibility issues. Discussion of how intertextuality as manifested in the
messages and move structure is thereby driven by the goals of corporations from different
cultures concludes this study alongside wider implications for learning and teaching ESP.
Keywords
1
Referential intertextuality; linguistics manifestation; corporate leaders’ messages; move
structure; global corporations in the US and PRC
1. Introduction
Communication between corporate leaders and stakeholders is crucial in the globalised world
because stakeholders’ support is vital for corporate success (Kitchen & Schultz, 2001), while
the Internet has promoted the use of corporate public relations discourse, under which corporate
leader messages are subsumed (AUTHOR, 2017; Segars & Kohut, 2001). Horton (1995)
defines corporate leader messages as “instruments” (p.180) concerned with communicating
business objectives and achieving corporate success. Specifically, they are defined as
communication from top management (i.e. CEOs, chairmen, managing directors, presidents,
etc.) and include information about corporate values, strategy, vision, mission and pertinent
information about the corporation with an aim of enhancing the image of the corporation and
building relationships with stakeholders (AUTHOR, 2014; Bhatia, 2008; Hamm, 2006;
Kitchen & Schultz, 2001; Kong, 2001). These messages comprise a genre in itself (AUTHOR,
2017) and its audience include capital market stakeholders (i.e. shareholders), product market
stakeholders (i.e. suppliers and customers), and corporate stakeholders (i.e. managers and
employees) (Hitt, Ireland, & Hoskisson, 2005). Research has shown that corporate leader
messages play an important role in image-building and relationship-building with various
stakeholder groups (Bhatia, 2010; AUTHOR, 2015; 2017) while also serving as a strategic
communication tool (Zorn, 2001).
Corporate leader messages have attracted some attention in business communication studies
(e.g. AUTHOR, 2014; 2015; Hyland, 1998), focusing on aspects such as the textual
2
characteristics, communication styles and use of metadiscourse. Such messages, however, are
relatively underexplored in the applied linguistics, especially (ESP) literature. Among the few
studies documented is Bhatia’s (2008) analysis of the Chairman’s letter/message to
shareholders in the annual report, noting that this PR discourse served the purposes of building
confidence in stakeholders about the prospects of the corporation and promoting the image of
the corporation. He also identified seven moves in these letters. In more recent studies,
AUTHOR (2017) examined the move structure of leader messages employed to build
relationships with stakeholders in Fortune Global 500 US and PRC corporations, with the
findings indicating that these messages demonstrated cross-cultural variations in that
corporations from the US used only 5 moves whereas those from the PRC used 6 moves.
Despite the work done, one phenomenon which is widely known to be characteristic of
corporation communication is that of intertextuality (Kong, 2001; Koskela, 2013) since these
messages are written with a consideration of past and present messages, which leaders might
have used earlier. Therefore, the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality are worth
examining given that leader messages often refer to prior texts. The term ‘intertextuality’ was
first coined by Kristeva (1969) who noted that “every text is from the outset under the
jurisdiction of other discourses which impose a universe on it” (p.1). Intertextuality posits that
texts are closely linked with other texts, and is often exhibited in corporate documents through
references that are made to specific texts including regulations and emails (Bremner & Costley,
2018), while according to Devitt (1991, p.336), all texts interact because “no text is single, as
texts refer to one another, draw from one another, create the purpose for one another”.
This interaction of text, as a matter of fact, depends on cultural and social contexts as
highlighted in Scollon’s (2004) study. In other words, intertextuality varies across genres and
3
different discourse communities use it for different purposes. Therefore, this study will adopt
a cross-cultural comparative perspective by examining the similarities and differences between
corporate leader messages created by North American corporations and those produced by PRC
corporations.
The study is pedagogically motivated with an ultimate goal of identifying the ways that writers
draw on prior texts in constructing the corporate leader message, which has implications for
teaching novice writers of corporate communication and public relations (Bremner, 2014), and
in particular, raising their awareness of how prior texts are drawn on in such messages and the
possible cultural differences in the realisations of intertextuality. In fact, a very important
feature of professional literacy in ESP is competence in intertextuality (Bremner & Costley,
2018; O’Connor, 2002; Warren, 2016). A writer’s ability to draw on other texts for the intended
audience can improve communication in the corporate context and is therefore, an essential
feature of communicative competence in professional contexts (Cheng, 2009). To date, ESP
literature has examined how particular texts are formally linked with other texts in the
workplace (e.g. Flowerdew & Wan, 2006; Gimenez, 2006) extending to real world business
communication practices in media, education, health and social care industries (Barron, Brunce,
& Nunan, 2002; Cheng & Mok, 2008; Pan, Scollon, & Scollon, 2002; van Dijk, 1997; Ventola,
1999). Bremner (2014, p.273) focused on public relations in general, showing how an intern
acquired three genres (press release, media coverage and pitch), and noting that the intern learnt
from using explicit and implicit references. However, we found that research on the linguistic
manifestations of intertextuality exhibited in Global 500 corporate leader messages and in
which specific moves the intertextual references are exhibited in such messages in different
cultures has, thus far, been limited. We also wanted to examine the sources that corporate
leaders would draw on for the ideas they incorporate into their messages.
4
The foregoing discussion has shown the importance of corporate leader messages and the
dearth of pedagogically oriented research into corporate leader messages in ESP. Researchers
(e.g. Evans, 2012; Williams, 1988) have expressed concerns that the lack of such practical
investigation leads to a mismatch between business/corporate communication
textbooks/classroom practices and the real world of corporate communication in the workplace.
As Bremner (2008) highlighted, business communication textbooks or, in the context of this
study, corporate communication textbooks, very often do not take into account intertextuality
in the tasks for analysis, and therefore do not clearly inform students: “the key point that writing
is an ongoing, dialogic process, and that this dialogue will have an impact on the way they
construct texts” (p.310). This paper therefore aims to narrow the gap between the real corporate
communication world and the classroom by offering suggestions on the design of corporate
communication tasks incorporating intertextuality into leader messages. In particular, we
investigate the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality in the form of the use of either direct
quotes or indirect quotes, the sources of texts referred to (i.e. with a focus on corporate
information, government policies, societal, economic or technological issues, etc.), and the
intertextual references employed in particular moves in messages to reveal the key features of
communication in corporations through the use of quantitative and qualitative analyses. In
particular, quantitative analysis is introduced to reveal the statistical patterns regarding how
intertextuality is manifested in corporate leader messages in different cultures.
In terms of the value of this study, we believe that students taking ESP business, public relations
and communication courses at universities would benefit from receiving training in cross-
cultural corporate communication with tasks that simulate the real world with regards to the
types of intertextuality used, the sources of information that are often preferred and how
5
intertextuality is manifested in the move structure of leaders’ messages in different cultures.
Corporate communication and public relations practitioners would gain insights on how they
should structure the messages for corporate leaders so as to project a certain image that is
aligned with their communicative purposes. Our study also contributes to a novel and informed
understanding of how texts are constructed with intertextual references in the professional
corporate communication context.
This study focuses on global corporations in the United States and the PRC since these
countries are the two world leading economic superpowers and due to increased trade between
these countries and other countries worldwide, it is worth examining how the linguistic
manifestations of intertextuality are revealed in leaders’ messages of these global corporations.
We focus on Fortune Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC because leaders in these
corporations are expected to regularly communicate with their stakeholders who include not
only shareholders but also the general public.
This paper is structured as follows. We review the key studies on intertextuality including the
types, sources of reference and the move structure where intertextuality is exhibited. The mixed
method research approach is then presented previous to the findings, an interpretation of the
findings and the implications of the study.
2. Conceptual framework
This section delineates the conceptual framework that has informed the current study. It first
briefly describes the different types of intertextuality and in particular, the types that are
analysed in this study. This will be followed by a discussion of how the source of intertextuality
6
may be manifested linguistically as well as the intertextual references employed in specific
moves in corporate leader messages.
2.1 The notion and types of intertextuality
Intertextuality is an umbrella term used to refer to the links that a text has with a prior one.
Since its introduction by Kristeva (1969), there has been a plethora of studies conducted to
explore intertextual phenomena in a wide variety of genres, and various types of intertextual
links have been identified. Among the more influential work was that by Devitt (1991) whose
ethnographic account of how tax accountants produced texts led her to posit three types of
intertextuality: functional, generic, and referential. To Devitt (1991), a text is functionally
linked to another text(s) if it has been prompted by other texts or interacts with other texts in
the specific community. For example, an accountant could draw on a particular accounting text
as being part of the specific community. Generic intertextuality exists when texts belonging to
different genres co-occur for various purposes in a situated activity. For example, Devitt (1991)
found thirteen tax accounting genres that matched with the situations of “repeated, structured
activities and relationships of the profession” (pp.339-40). The type of intertextuality can also
mean the links writers/speakers make to prior experience of texts of the same genre for mental
resources when producing or reading a text.
Referential intertextuality occurs in a text that derives its ideas from another text. In her corpus
of accounting genres, Devitt (1991) found different types of ideas being referred to by the
writers. Among them were the subject matter (often linked to prior communication), taxation
guidelines and regulations often with their sources included as authorities to justify the various
decisions made. Tax accountants also used many explicit references including citations and
7
quotations to general tax publications and IRS documents in a bid to enhance the
persuasiveness of the text. Our study is concerned with this last type of intertextuality and it
examines the types of ideas referred to by corporate leaders in their messages to stakeholders,
and how this referential intertextuality is manifested through linguistic devices in the corporate
communication arena.
2.2 Manifestations of referential intertextuality
There have been different attempts to identify the methods or strategies that writers adopt to
incorporate ideas from other sources into their own. Fairclough (1992a; 1992b; 1992c), in his
discussions of how to perform critical discourse analyses, pointed out that intertextuality
(presumably referential) refers to “parts of specific other texts [that] are incorporated into a
text” (1992c, p. 273). The boundaries between the representing discourse and the represented
discourse can be marked or unmarked. Direct representation (i.e. boundary-marked) denotes
an explicit boundary between the voice of the person being reported and the voice of the
reporter, whereas indirect representation (i.e. boundary-unmarked) does not clearly express
whether something is a represented discourse (Fairclough, 1992c, p.282). Fairclough, however,
did not particularly discuss what boundary markers are nor did he offer a systematic analytical
framework for identifying and examining intertextuality.
Scollon (2004) argues that intertextuality varies across genres and different discourse
communities use it for different purposes by highlighting the varying techniques to make use
of information and language in journalistic writing as distinct from academic genres.
Journalists regularly embrace both direct and indirect quotations while academic writers
seldom opt for direct quotations. This contrast has been evident in a wide range of studies. For
8
example, Schokkenbroek’s (1999) work on news reporting shows that quotations from
witnesses’ accounts are often used to construct events reported while quotations from
commentators are co-opted to indirectly evaluate the events. Meanwhile, citation studies show
that in academic writing, ideas tend to be summarised or generalised more frequently than
directly quoted (see, e.g. Hyland 2004). The intertextuality in academic genres also displays a
variety of purposes and sophisticated conventions (e.g., integral vs non-integral citation and
formalized citation styles). Hyland (2004) in particular argues that the propositional content of
citations in academic writing is mostly drawn on to construct knowledge while the names cited
are indicated as a way not to attribute the knowledge to the sources but reflect some form of
social interaction with other scholars in the field. In addition, Harwood (2009) has highlighted
the differences in citation functions of academic writing in the computer science and sociology
disciplines.
More variations in intertextual manifestations can be evidenced by studies of workplace
communication. For example, Koskela (2013) has found intertextual manifestation in
information policy, communication policy and communication strategy texts with
commonalities among the three being no direct quotations used nor comments or evaluations
of a text, while some indirect quotations with attribution and mentioning company documents
or statements were evident. Devitt (1991) also identified four methods that tax accountants
employed to cite tax regulations, namely, explicit quotations, unmarked quotations,
paraphrases, or interpretations. While the first three types are quite commonly known in various
types of writing, ‘interpretation’ is rather ambiguously described by Devitt. In short, there is
ample evidence that lends support to Scollon’s (2004) postulation about community-specific
intertextual practices. As such, it is contended in this paper that specific manifestations of
intertextuality could also be found in leader messages, which are distinct from other types of
9
business communication in workplace settings.
Yet, an absence of a systematic analytical framework for examining intertextuality renders the
identification of the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality somewhat difficult. Due to this,
scholars have developed various typological configurations using linguistics features
(Fairclough, 1992b) to help “identify the traces of other texts” (Bazerman, 2004, p.91) for
intertextual analysis. These configurations are necessary for clarifying the interdependent
relationship between meaning and form in various discourse types. One of the key typological
constructs was developed by Bazerman (2004) who argued that “intertextuality is not just a
matter of which other texts you refer to, but how you use them, what you use them for, and
ultimately how you position yourself as a writer to them to make your own statement” (p.94).
As such, he developed the following typology of intertextual manifestations to guide his
analysis:
1. Direct quotation or a citation/citing another text with its source indicated
2. Direct quotation without giving references/scarce quotes
3. Indirect speech or a quotation/referring to another text without a direct quotation/
mentioning a person, a company/ organisation/ foundation
4. Comments or evaluation of a statement or text
5. Using recognisable phrasing, and terminology associated with particular
documents/events/people (e.g. professional jargon)
6. Using language and phrases that seem to echo certain ways of communicating and
discussions among other types of documents (e.g. metaphors, stock phrases, idioms,
proverbs).
10
Bazerman’s (2004) typology of intertextuality offered a systematic and comprehensive
framework for identifying intertextual manifestations in various domains and was adopted in
multiple intertextuality studies (e.g. Koskela, 2013). One drawback of his typology appears
with the inconsistency in the use of linguistic devices as descriptors to distinguish the different
categories of manifestations. For example, Type 4 did not clearly specify the linguistic form or
how comments or evaluations are presented. Therefore, a certain level of adaptation is needed
if his framework is to be applied for intertextual analysis, which was what we did in the current
study further elaborated in the Methodology section. The framework was modified for the
analysis of intertextuality in corporate leaders’ messages.
Furthermore, we argue that the specific manifestation of intertextuality in leader messages may
vary across cultures. Kristeva (1980; 1986) suggested that a text does not only refer to other
texts but to the cultural or social system in which the texts are embedded (see also Fairclough,
1992b; 1992c). Therefore, we argue that corporate leaders’ messages from two distinct cultural
contexts will also display cross-cultural differences in their manifested intertextuality. This
leads us to investigate the types of intertextuality manifested in leaders’ messages from the US
and PRC. The following research questions were derived accordingly:
RQ1a: What types of intertextuality were employed in the messages of corporate leaders from
Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC?
RQ1b: What were the differences between the types of intertextuality employed in the messages
of corporate leaders from Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC?
2.3 Sources of propositional content of appropriated materials
11
Prior studies have found evidence on how different genres drew on various resources to create
meaning. Such resources could be related to propositional content or subject matters in other
domains. For example, in Finnish business communication strategy texts, Koskela (2013)
observed that writers tended to make “references (type of source) to company strategy, values,
vision, mission, reputation, profile, culture and business goals” which presumably were derived
from the strategic management function of the corporation and highlighted the importance of
this referential system (p.397). Fairclough, in his analysis of Hacker et al.’s (1991) paper,
argued that news often drew on other domains of life including work, politics, entertainment,
religion, etc. (Fairclough, 1992b, pp. 202-204). In view of this, our study examined the sources
of reference employed in the manifestation of intertextuality in leader messages and whether
there were variations in the messages created by leaders from global corporations in the US
and PRC. Our study therefore addressed the following research question:
RQ2: What were the sources the writers of the messages drew on? What were the differences
between the use of intertextual references in the messages of leaders from Global 500
corporations in the US and PRC?
2.4 Intertextuality and move structure of leader messages
The manifestation of intertextuality is closely associated with the move structure in rhetorical
strategies in writing (Nickerson, 2000). Nickerson who found referential intertextuality in the
three-move structure of business faxes suggested that intertextual references “situate the genre-
text by (re) constructing the activities carried out to achieve institutional goals and the social
relations that have evolved to facilitate these” (2000, p.115). In her study, the move-specific
12
intertextuality was identified in business faxes. For example, intertextual references to
communicative events or actions were found in Move I while references to future events or
texts were exhibited in Move III (p.116).
In our study (AUTHOR, 2017) on move structure analysis in corporate leader messages, we
also noticed traces of intertextuality in the moves. Although the previous research did not focus
on move-specific intertextuality analysis, we postulate that referential intertextuality would be
manifested through certain moves in leaders’ messages because of the similar rhetorical and
strategic nature of intertextuality and the move structure.
To investigate and reveal move-specific intertextuality in leader messages, we intend to draw
on our previous study of move structure analysis of leader messages (AUTHOR, 2017), which
was adapted from Bhatia’s (2008) study on chairmen’s letters:
Move 1: Overview of past performance/looking back;
Move 2: Major values/mission and vision;
Move 3: Expression of gratitude to stakeholders;
Move 4: Major achievements and performance;
Move 5: Future plans, actions and promises;
Move 6: Looking ahead/concluding remarks.
Based on the above, the third research question regarding the use of intertextuality in the move
structure of leaders’ messages from the US and PRC was as follows:
13
RQ3: What were the differences between the types of intertextuality manifested in the moves of
corporate leader messages in Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC?
3. Methodology
3.1 Data Sourcing
The data used for the contrastive analysis was retrieved from the websites of Chinese and US
2017 Global 500 companies. Chinese and US companies were selected because the US remains
dominant in many aspects, whereas the PRC is rapidly becoming increasingly influential in
world affairs due to its booming economy (Ikenberry, 2008). According to 2017 Fortune Global
500 List, the US and PRC are the two countries accounting for the largest number of companies
making it to the List. Patton (2016) proposed that the contribution of the PRC to global GDP
would surpass that of the US by 2018. Therefore, understanding the professional behaviours of
the two largest powers enhances knowledge of cross-cultural communication between them
and other countries while a different use of intertextuality might be observed based on cultural
differences between the two countries.
This study selected corporate websites, which are the most typical type of owned media (Hanna,
Rohm, & Crittenden, 2011), as the data source. Corporate websites provide corporations with
unique functions and features to realise their communicative purposes (AUTHOR, 2014; 2017)
and offer an official platform for corporate leaders to make their voices widely heard.
3.2 Data Sampling
14
In order to sample comparable data, we selected corporate leader messages from the Chinese
and US companies listed on 2017 Fortune Global 500. The initial selection included 108
Chinese and 133 US companies. Of the 108 Chinese companies, 55 (51%) included leader
communication such as leader messages, chairman letters, and messages from CEOs on their
corporate websites, whereas 77 (58%) out of 133 US companies adopted similar practices. In
sum, 132 out of 241 companies from the PRC and the US employed leader communication on
their corporate websites. From the initial selection, we sampled the companies with leaders’
messages in the “About us”, “Company Profile” and “Who we are”, the easily accessible pages
on their websites that focused on communicating with company stakeholders in general,
resulting in 34(62%) companies from the PRC and 41 (53%) from the US. The abundant
presence of leaders’ messages on the easily accessible page (i.e. more than half of the US
companies and nearly two-thirds that of PRC) indicated the popularity of this discursive
practice in corporate communication, thereby confirming the importance of our investigation.
A list of 75 (58%) out of 132 Fortune Global 500 companies that employed leaders’ messages
as their communication tool with 34 companies from the PRC and 41 from the US was
compiled, creating a corpus of 114,100 words (see Table 1 for the names and corresponding
ranks of the selected companies from the US and PRC).
15
Table 1. Names and corresponding ranks of the selected 2017 Global 500 companies in
the US and PRC
16
3.3 Data Mining
Our research questions required a combination of quantitative and qualitative analyses. We
coded 75 messages on a sentence basis for content analysis and statistical examination. A total
of 1902 sentences were coded.
Concerning the first set of research questions (RQ1), we reconstructed the coding scheme of
the five types of intertextuality identified from the literature review. Drawing on Fairclough’s
(1992c) conceptualization of boundary-marked and boundary-unmarked as two guidelines for
detecting intertextual traces and Bazerman’s (2004) typology of intertextuality as a method to
examine intertextuality, we reconstructed the typology based on Bazerman’s (2004) types of
intertextuality but excluded type 4: comments or evaluation of a statement or text, because our
focus was on the linguistic manifestations of intertextuality in leaders’ messages rather than an
interpretation or evaluation of the content. We therefore reconstructed a system of five
intertextual types based on the degree of explicitness whenever reference was made to an earlier
text in our investigation of the intertextual practices in leaders’ messages in Global 500
corporations in the US and PRC. This approach to schematize intertextuality or view the
intertextual resources on a spectrum rather than as an unstructured list of items provided a
systematic framework for conducting intertextual analysis. Table 2 illustrates the five types of
intertextuality adapted for coding the sentences of each leader’s message and the related
examples from the messages sampled. Each sentence was coded based on the coding scheme
developed. Double coding was allowed in the coding of RQ 1 and 2 because more than one
type of intertextuality or source of reference could appear in a sentence.
17
Table 2. Description and exemplification on the adapted five types of intertextuality
18
For the second research question (RQ2), we coded the reference type of each intertextual use.
In line with findings from previous studies (e.g. Bremner & Costley, 2018; Koskela, 2013), the
intertextual meaning was mostly inferred from the published company information (R1),
government policies (R2), societal (R3) and economic (R4) issues, technological trends and
developments (R5), cultural specific idioms (R6) and others (R7). Table 3 exemplifies the
seven types of reference employed in our coding scheme.
19
Table 3. Exemplifications on sources of reference in intertextuality
20
To address the third research question (RQ3), we coded the intertextuality manifested in
different moves in the following six moves (e.g. Author, 2017; Bhatia, 2008) in leader
messages:
21
Move 1: Overview of past performance/looking back;
Move 2: Major values/mission and vision;
Move 3: Expression of gratitude to stakeholders;
Move 4: Major achievements and performance;
Move 5: Future plans, actions and promises;
Move 6: Looking ahead/concluding remarks.
The use of intertextuality in each move of the leader messages sampled was recorded for
statistical analysis to facilitate the interpretation of the different uses of intertextuality in Global
500 corporations in the US and PRC.
3.4 Inter-rater reliability
Two coders were trained to code the leader messages from the selected companies. In an
attempt to ensure high inter-coder consistency, both coders underwent 20 hours of coding
training and were required to co-code 177 sentences (10%) extracted from the database. The
inter-rater checking achieved the Cohen Kappa value of 0.8 or above for all the coded items.
When judging whether one expression qualified as an intertextual practice or not, both coders
traced possible references through different means (e.g. surfing on corporate websites,
government reports/policies, dictionaries and Internet sources) to ensure that the earlier text
that it referred to did exist. Upon the completion of the co-coding exercise, the authors
discussed all disagreement cases with both coders to ascertain the consistency in the
interpretation of the coding scheme before the comprehensive implementation of the coding
exercise. Table 4 shows the inter-rater reliability results.
22
Table 4. The inter-rater reliability results of all coding items
3.5 Statistical analyses
With regards to the examination of differences between the types of intertextuality (RQ1a-b),
sources of reference (RQ2), and intertextuality manifested in different moves (RQ3), a two-
tailed t-test and one-way ANOVA were conducted to determine whether any significant
differences were found between leader messages from the US and PRC, and if so, what
variations were evident. In investigating whether there was an interaction between country and
intertextual types on sources of reference (RQ2), a two-way ANOVA was performed.
4. Findings
4.1 The types of intertextuality
23
The first set of research questions inquired into the types of intertextuality evident in leaders’
messages from global corporations in the US and PRC. The results showed that T3 (M=9.9706)
was the most frequently used type of intertextuality followed by T4 (M=6.8529), T2
(M=2.3235), T5 (M=1.6471), and T1 (M=0.5294) in messages from the PRC. Similarly, T3
(M=9.5366) was the most commonly used type of intertextuality followed by T4 (M=5.4878),
T5 (M=1.4634), T2 (M=0.2439) and T1 (M=0.1951) in messages from the US.
Notably, Chinese leaders’ messages (RQ1a) revealed a significant difference in intertextuality
types (F(4,165)= 10.899, p<0.0001). The Tukey post hoc test showed that the occurrence of
T3 was statistically significantly higher than T1 (p<0.0001), T2 (p<0.0001), and T5 (p<0.0001).
Also, the occurrence of T4 was statistically significantly higher than T1 (p<0.002) and T5
(p<0.019). (See Figure 1a) Similar results were seen in the intertextual types identified in the
US leaders’ messages (RQ1a). A significant difference was found in the use of different types
of intertextuality (F(4,200)= 17.358, p<0.0001). The Tukey post hoc test revealed that T3 was
statistically significantly higher than T1 (p<0.0001), T2 (p<0.0001), T4 (p<0.03) and T5
(p<0.0001). Also, the use of T4 was statistically significantly higher than T1 (p<0.002), T2
(p<0.002), T3 (p<0.03) and T5 (p<0.032). (See Figure 1b) The findings show that leader
messages from Global 500 corporations in the US and PRC are highly intertextual and fairly
uniform, manifesting different types of intertextuality consistent with Bazerman (2004),
making most use of the types of intertextuality which refer to another text without direct
quotation or mentioning a person/company (T3), and using recognisable phrasing associated
with particular documents (T4).
24
In examining the differences between the types of intertextuality found in the messages of
leaders from corporations in the PRC and US (RQ1b), the use of T1 (M =0.5294, M =0.1951,
CN US
p=0.05) and T2 (M =2.3235, M =0.2439, p=0.0003) was statistically significantly higher
CN US
in messages from corporations in the PRC as opposed to their US counterparts.
Figure 1a. Intertextuality types in PRC leader messages
Figure 1b. Intertextuality types in US leader messages
4.2 Sources of intertextual reference
25
The second research question investigated the sources of intertextuality in leaders’ messages
from corporations in the US and PRC. Our findings indicated that R1 was the most frequently
used source of reference (M=10.4412) followed by R4 (M=2.8235), R5 (M=2.7059), R2
(M=2.5294), R3 (M=1.8824), R7 (M=1.4118) and R6 (0.2647) in the intertextuality employed
in Chinese leaders’ messages. Likewise, R1 was found to be the most commonly used source
of reference (M=9.3902) followed by R3 (M=3.0732), R4 (M=2.1951), R5 (M=1.5122), R2
(M=0.0244), R7 (M=1.2195) and R6 (M=0.2927) in US leaders’ messages. Figure 2 displays
the descriptive data on the sources of reference by intertextual types, and illustrates that R1
was often manifested in T3 while the widest range of sources was exhibited in T5.
Figure 2. Descriptive data on the sources of reference by intertextual types
400
R1_CN
350
R1_US
R2_CN
300
R2_US
250 R3_CN
R3_US
N 200 R4_CN
R4_US
150 R5_CN
R5_US
100 R6_CN
R6_US
50 R7_CN
R7_US
0
T1 T2 T3 T4 T5
Significant differences were noted in terms of the sources of intertextuality employed in both
Chinese (F(6,231)=12.286, p<0.0001) and US (F(2,280)=17.027, p<0.0001) leaders’ messages
(RQ2). The Tukey post hoc test indicated that R1 was statistically significantly higher than the
26
remaining Rs (CN: p<0.0001; US: p<0.0001) in leaders’ messages from both countries.
Corporate information is often exhibited in indirect speech (T3) to maintain an objective and
factual tone and the largest range of sources is manifested through recognisable phrasing and
terminology associated with particular documents (T4).
The t-test results showed that there was a statistically significant difference in the presence of
R2 in Chinese leaders’ messages in comparison with that of the US messages (M =2.5882,
CN
M =0.0244, p<0.0001). Furthermore, a significant difference was noted with respect to the
US
presence of R3 (M =1.3529, M =3.0976, p<0.009) in US leader messages compared with
CN US
those of their Chinese counterparts (RQ2). Two-way ANOVA also confirmed an interaction
between country and intertextual types on R2 (F(4,365)=6.165, p<0.0001) and R3
(F(4,365)=3.732, p<0.005) (RQ2). The use of government policies reference in T2-direct quote
with reference, T3-indirect quote and T4-recognisable phrasing in messages from corporations
in the PRC was significantly higher when compared with the US messages. However, the use
of societal reference in T3-indirect quote and T4-recognisable phrasing of the US leaders’
messages was significantly higher than that of their Chinese counterparts.
4.3 Manifestation of intertextuality in the move structure
Concerning the third research question investigating the use of intertextuality in the move
structure of leaders’ messages from corporations in the US and PRC, our findings indicated
that the use of intertextuality in M1 (M=8.2647) was the most frequent followed by M5
(M=2.9706), M4 (M=1.9412), M2 (M=1.9706), M3 (M=0.6176) and M6 (M=0.5) in messages
from corporations in the PRC. Similarly, the use of intertextuality in M1 (M=6.4146) was most
27
commonly seen followed by M2 (M=4.0976), M5 (M=1.3171), M4 (M=1.1951), M3
(M=0.4878) and M6 (M=0.3171) in messages from corporations in the US.
Significant differences in the use of intertextuality in M1 in both Chinese (F(5,198)=7.857,
p<0.0001) and the US (F(5,240)=10.521, p<0.0001) leaders’ messages were noted. The Tukey
post hoc test revealed that M1 was statistically significantly higher than M2 (p<0.0001), M3
(p<0.0001), M4 (p<0.0001), M5 (p<0.004) and M6 (p<0.0001) in Chinese leaders’ messages
(see Figure 3a). While for US leaders’ messages, M1 was statistically significantly higher than
M3 (p<0.0001), M4 (p<0.0001), M5 (p<0.0001) and M6 (p<0.0001). In addition, M2 was
statistically significantly higher than M3 (p=0.01) and M6 (p=0.006) (see Figure 3b).
The t-test results showed that there was a statistically significantly higher use of intertextuality
in M2, which is concerned with major values/mission and vision, in US leaders’ messages as
opposed to messages from corporations in the PRC (M =1.9706, M =4.0976, p=0.0004).
CN US
Figure 3a Manifestation of intertextuality in the move structure of PRC leader messages
28
Figure 3b Manifestation of intertextuality in the move structure of US leader messages
29
5. Discussion
5.1 Standardised linguistic manifestations of intertextuality in leader messages
Our study examined corporate leader messages based on two comparable data sets: one
collected from Global 500 corporations in the PRC and the other one from corporations in the
US. Despite noticeable differences in their linguistic and cultural backgrounds, some similar
patterns of manifestations of intertextuality were evident in the two countries. As “genres tend
to have their own intertextual patterns that reflect the type of social action that the genre
participate in” (Koskela, 2013), the striking similarities across the leader messages from
different cultural backgrounds indicate the existence of a corporate leader message genre and
the importance of leaders’ roles in realising the communicative goals of the corporation. The
use of T3 or indirect speech shows the common use of attribution, an interpersonal
metadiscourse that “draw on external sources to underline the authority of their assertion” so
as to enable leaders to enhance their credibility in communication (Hyland, 1998, p. 235). The
high occurrence of T3 and T4 in leader messages from both the US and PRC suggests that
professional corporate communication as a genre in itself tends to employ such types of
intertextuality across cultures. Stakeholders expect factual messages using indirect speech and
recognisable phrasing that are indicative of accountability, transparency and responsibility
while corporations adhere to these requirements in the globalised era (Yeo, Goh, & Tso, 2011).
In addition, the significant use of R1 (i.e. corporate information) in leader messages from both
the PRC and US corporations is consistent with Koskela’s study (2013) that “[R]eferences to
company strategy, values, vision, mission, reputation, profile, culture and business goals
reinforce the place of the communication strategy texts in the hierarchical structure of the
30
strategic management function of the organization and reveal the importance of the genre
system for the social action the documents are participating in” (p.397).
Another noteworthy finding is that the use of intertextuality was most commonly observed in
M1 (i.e. overview of past performance/ looking back) in leader messages from both the PRC
and US. This is aligned with the literature that the use of familiar references such as mentioning
performance serves a pragmatic purpose to convince readers and establish rapport with them
(Ho, 2011), while legitimisation, focusing on convincing readers with factual evidence of the
performance and development of the company, is commonly seen in the structure of business
texts (Kong, 2001).
5.2 Localised linguistic manifestations of intertextuality in leader messages
Notably, the use of direct quotes (i.e. T1 and T2) was significantly higher in messages from
corporations in the PRC as opposed to their US counterparts. A greater use of direct quotes
through making reference to authoritative sources is done to add credibility and legitimacy to
leader messages (Li, 2009). The leader’s voice as an authoritative spokesperson is reinforced
by the use of direct speech simultaneously rendering the boundaries between the leader’s voice
and the quoted voice unnoticeable to readers, thereby making it possible for the leader to
identify himself with the quoted voice when reporting on company information and persuading
stakeholders (Fairclough, 1992c; Li, 2009). Explicit types of intertextuality are indicative of
open communication which is of crucial importance for corporations in the PRC (Lines, 2003;
Yeo et al., 2011). However, messages in corporations from the US often have a tendency to
refer readers to additional information in the form of reports for their further reading and, as
such, often rely on implicit types of intertextuality.
31
Significant use of R2 was noted in leader messages from the PRC while R3 was often employed
in leader messages from the US. Leaders emphasise important issues of the corporation to
realise their communicative goals and intents, and these issues are intricately related to and
influenced by social, political, economic and ideological considerations rather than cultural
factors (AUTHOR, 2017). Leaders from corporations in the PRC seem to intricately tie their
corporate communicative goals and intent with national identity since they focus on
government policies by emphasising corporations’ expansion plans with the support of such
policies, while corporations in the US frame their corporate communication as socially
responsible by highlighting issues such as gender equality, diversity, workplace benefits and
sustainability. These findings add weight to the notion that in the professional corporate context,
intertextuality is often manifested ideologically in political and social issues. Direct speech
alongside government policies that accentuate the rising importance of the PRC as a nation and
corporations’ ambitious plans to expand their operations globally (Krauss & Bradsher, 2015)
add more authority to the leader’s voice in the PRC. By contrast, US corporations draw on
sources of intertextual references comprising a focus on social issues such as diversity and staff
inclusivity, and links with positive outcomes including financial performance and increased
productivity (AUTHOR, 2017; Salomon & Schork, 2003).
Apart from this, there was a higher use of intertextuality in move two in US leaders’ messages
because in these corporations, company core values, principles, mission, and vision are often
derived from other documents that emphasise ideals, rights and compliance to guide their
business and strengthen the corporate culture.
32
5.3 Variations in the use of metadiscourse in the linguistic manifestations of
intertextuality
Even though there was a high frequency of indirect speech (T3) and recognisable phrasing (T4)
in leader messages from both the PRC and US, a variation in the use of metadiscourse,
particularly the use of relational and person markers was evident. Metadiscourse refers to the
use of linguistic elements that help “realize the rational, credible and affective appeals that
contribute to the persuasiveness of a text” (Hyland, 1998, p.226), and can be viewed as an
important means of revealing a corporate leader’s voice as well as building leader-stakeholder
relationships. Metadiscourse shows how writing reflects a sensitivity to intertextual
relationships (Hyland, 2000). As suggested by Hyland (1998), relational markers such as the
use of second-person and third-person pronouns explicitly refer to the relationship between the
writer and reader, and similarly, the leader-stakeholder relationship, in our study. Person
markers refer to the explicit presence of the author in the text and is indicated by the frequency
of the use of first-person pronouns (Hyland, 2000). After scrutinising the sentences that
exhibited T3 and T4, we discovered a significant difference in the use of person and relational
markers: I, you and our in leader messages from the US and PRC. Table 4 shows the use of
relational markers in sentences exhibiting T3 and T4.
Table 4. The use of relational markers in sentences exhibiting T3 and T4
33
Leader messages from the US exhibited a significantly higher use of I, you and our than those
from the PRC. Messages from US corporations place emphasis on the leader-stakeholder
relationship by highlighting the shared interests explicitly or inviting stakeholders into the
message by drawing on shared general knowledge through the use of inclusive third-person
pronouns: our (see Example [1]) (Hyland, 1998). Employing second-person pronouns in the
form of you can persuade stakeholders explicitly via involving them more closely since it
explicitly acknowledges their presence (see Examples 2 and 3) (Hyland, 1998). In addition,
messages from US corporations emphasise the importance of the leader’s role, responsibility
and authority and build credibility by employing more first-person pronouns (see Example [1])
(Hyland, 1998). Hyland (1998) further added that the overall persuasive effect of a text could
be increased if all types of pronouns mentioned are employed.
Examples:
(1) I am very proud of the work that AIA is doing together with our customers, our staff,
our agents and our partners. (US30)
(2) The Board oversees our responsible growth strategy to deliver long-term value for you,
our shareholders. (US09)
(3) Whether you’re an employee, a customer, a business partner or a shareholder, all Delta
stakeholders benefit from the decisions we make to drive the virtuous circle. (US24)
5.4 Differences in identity shaped through the variations in the use of intertextuality
As pointed out by Fairclough (1995, p.55), “text makes its own small contribution to shaping
social identities, social relations, and systems of knowledge and belief”, so corporate leader
34
messages with different types of intertextuality can be employed as a strategic means to
construct corporate identity (Alessandri, 2001; Balmer, 1998; Goodman & Hirsch, 2015). The
similar ways in which corporate identity is revealed through intertextual practices in
corporations in the US and PRC are that the types of intertextuality are mainly referential
(Devitt, 1991), and the source of reference is corporate information, both being indicative of a
professional and business-oriented corporate identity.
Striking variations are, nonetheless, observed in terms of the way corporate identity is framed
in corporations in the PRC compared to those in the US. Corporations in the PRC shape their
collective identity in line with Porter (1986) - frequent use of explicit, authoritative direct
quotes to establish legitimacy and persuade stakeholders that corporations are complying with
standards that expect them to be transparent and accountable (Lines, 2003; Yeo et al., 2011).
Quotations from an authority in terms of direct speech suggest a high degree of identification
between the reported voice and the author’s or leader’s voice, and could be used to justify
policies (Li, 2009). Also, an emphasis on government policies highlights the rising power of
the country and national identity of corporations while articulating a vision for the future is
indicative of strong ambition. On the other hand, corporations from the US construct a different
type of identity based on their communicative goals and uses of intertextuality to disseminate
succinct professional corporate information. Core values and social responsibility are
supported through implicit intertextual types such as indirect quotes and referring readers to
additional documents. A greater use of first-person, second-person and third-person pronouns
in leader messages in the US suggest that these relational markers are used to build credibility
in stakeholders through showing the importance of the leader and more importantly, the shared
interests and knowledge between the leader and stakeholders.
35
6. Conclusion and Implications for Teaching and Research
This study analysed how intertextuality is realised linguistically in the move structure of
corporate leader messages through the use of types of intertextuality and sources of reference.
The study is novel since it is the first to examine the above and the findings are relevant and
informative in helping us understand how texts are constructed with intertextual references in
the professional corporate communication context. This research provides evidence that
corporate leaders or corporate communication practitioners are knowledgeable of the history
and types of intertextuality in a message and by extension the various links and
interconnections that appear in a text.
Adapting and illustrating Bazerman’s (2004) intertextuality typology to the professional
communication context constitutes applied research while using quantitative and qualitative
methods to conduct intertextual analyses confirm integrative testing and development in the
field. From a pragmatic perspective, we have offered a better understanding of the possible
construction of corporate identities through a comparison of the PRC corporations’ leader
messages and their US counterparts. Extended value is henceforth given to academics and
corporate communication practitioners.
This study would benefit students studying intercultural or business communication in that
students’ awareness could be raised with regards to how corporate leader messages draw on
prior text implicitly or explicitly in different cultures within the corporate communication
context in the real-world. Bremner (2008) supports this point by noting that the goal of
36
intertextuality is for students to “see the texts they read and produce as part of a wider, ongoing
system of intertextually related practice, grounded in a professional context” (p.319).
In ESP, instructional materials often lack tasks that focus on intertextuality, so the findings
from this study may enable learners to have a more realistic context in relation to corporate
workplace communication (Bremner, 2008). Using corporate leader messages to examine
intertextuality could act as a model for authentic instructional materials and activities in ESP
courses. It is true that the use of multiple texts and their intertextual relations may create
difficulties for students (Bremner & Costley, 2018). While it is true that certain aspects of the
corporate communication context cannot be easily replicated in classroom tasks, this should
not hinder lecturers from designing these tasks since they raise awareness of the complexity
involved in intertextuality. For example, in a corporate communication course on writing skills,
the importance of intertextuality and how it contributes to the effectiveness of corporate
communication should be emphasised and our findings here can illuminate this aspect of
intertextuality. In particular, the use of direct quotes and indirect ones can be used to signal
intertextuality as well as the types of information used (e.g. emphasis on social or governmental
policies, etc.). The communicative goals and intents of corporations which shape their identity
could also be explained so that students can see that intertextuality does not only involve text
manipulation but rather requires an understanding of the goals of corporate communication and
what different corporations view as important. Students will need to be given opportunities to
identify what readers/stakeholders know and will need to know further, and what kind of
information to incorporate from other texts to signal intertextuality, and how explicitly or
implicitly they should highlight the ideology/content to achieve the corporate communicative
goals. While awareness of the audience is necessary for constructing leader messages, Hyland
(2000) points out that an understanding of the appropriate metadiscourse knowledge such as
37
relational and person markers is crucial in producing messages that are contextualised, coherent
and reader-oriented, and the ways in which intertextuality is realised linguistically through
these markers is worth exploring further. More extensive research on the various ways in which
intertextuality is realised linguistically and the difficulties it poses for students is warranted.
As for corporate communication practitioners, they would be more cognizant of how
intertextuality is generally manifested in corporate messages from the US and PRC and this in
turn would help them to create more effective messages for leaders that conform to these
corporate communication practices to achieve their intended communicative purposes. Our
study paves the way to scrutinise intertextuality as exhibited in different industries and
professional communication contexts. Further research could also be undertaken on a cross-
comparison of a larger number of global corporations from a variety of countries.
To conclude, our study provides support for the finding that intertextuality is a prevalent feature
of all leader messages, particularly in terms of drawing on information related to corporate
information in move one: overview and looking back, and in exhibiting this information using
indirect speech and recognisable phrasing. However, cross-cultural variations are noted in that
the use of direct quotes is more frequent with more explicit intertextual references to
government policies in messages from corporations in the PRC, whereas the use of indirect
quotes in conjunction with an emphasis on intertextual social responsibility issues, and the use
of more first-person, second-person and third-person pronouns is more commonly observed in
messages from corporations in the US. This in turn suggests that corporate communicative
goals and identity feature prominently in intertextual linguistic choices and play a role in
engaging stakeholders.
38
References
Alessandri, S.W. (2001). Modeling corporate identity: A concept explication and theoretical
explanation. Corporate Communications: An International Journal, 6(4), 173-182.
AUTHOR. (2014).
AUTHOR. (2015).
AUTHOR. (2017).
Balmer, J.M.T. (1998). Corporate identity and the advent of corporate marketing. Journal of
Marketing Management,14 (8), 963-996.
Barron, C., Brunce, N., & Nunan, D. (2002). Knowledge and discourse: Towards an ecology
of language. Essex: Pearson Education.
Bazerman, C. (2004). Intertextuality: How texts rely on other texts. In C. Bazerman & P.
Prior (Eds.), What writing does and how it does it: An introduction to analyzing texts
and textual practices (pp. 83-96). London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates Publishers.
Bhatia, V.K. (2008). Towards Critical Genre Analysis. In: V.K. Bhatia, J. Flowerdew & R.H.
Jones (Eds.), Advances in Discourse Studies (pp.166-177). London & New York:
Routledge.
Bhatia, V.K. (2010). Interdiscursivity in professional communication. Discourse &
Communication,4 (1), 32-50.
Bremner, S. (2008). Intertextuality and business communication textbooks: Why students
need more textual support. English for Specific Purposes, 27(3), 306-321.
Bremner, S. (2014). Genres and processes in the PR industry: Behind the scenes with an
intern writer. Journal of Business Communication, 51(3), 259-278.
39
Bremner, S., & Costley, T. (2018). Bringing reality to the classroom: Exercises in
intertextuality. English for Specific Purposes, 52, 1-12.
Cheng, W., & Mok, E. (2008). Discourse processes and products: Land surveyors in Hong
Kong. English for Specific Purposes, 27(1), 57–73.
Cheng, W. (2009). Professional communicative competences: Four key industries in Hong
Kong. In W. Cheng & K. C. C. Kong (Eds.), Professional communication:
Collaboration between academics and practitioners (pp. 31–50). Hong Kong: Hong
Kong University Press.
Devitt, A. (1991). Intertextuality in tax accounting: Generic, referential, and functional. In C.
Bazerman, & J. Paradis, (Eds)., Textual dynamics of the professions: Historical and
contemporary studies of writing in professional communities (pp.336-357). Madison:
University of Wisconsin Press.
Evans, S. (2012). Designing email tasks for the Business English classroom: Implications
from a study of Hong Kong’s key industries. English for Specific Purposes, 31, 202-
212.
Fairclough, N. (1992a). Discourse and social change. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Fairclough, N. (1992b). Discourse and text: Linguistic and intertextual analysis within
discourse analysis. Discourse & Society, 3(2), 193-217.
Fairclough, N. (1992c). Intertextuality in critical discourse analysis. Linguistics and
Education, 4(3-4), 269-293.
Fairclough, N. (1995). Media discourse. London: Edward Arnold.
Flowerdew, J., & Wan, A. (2006). Genre analysis of tax computation letters: How and why
tax accountants write the way they do. English for Specific Purposes 25(2), 133-153.
Gimenez, J. (2006). Embedded business emails: Meeting new demands in international
business communication. English for Specific Purposes 25(2), 154-172.
40
Goodman, M.B., & Hirsch, P.B. (2015). Corporate communication: Critical business asset
for strategic global change. New York, NY: Peter Lang Publishing, Inc.
Hacker, K., Coste, T.G., Kamm, D.F. & Bybee, C.R. (1991). Oppositional Readings of
Network Television News: Viewer Deconstruction. Discourse and Society, 2(2), 183-
202.
Hamm, J. (May, 2006). The five messages leaders must manage. Harvard Business Review, 1-
8. Retrieved from https://hbr.org/2006/05/the-five-messages-leaders-must-manage
Hanna, R., Rohm, A., & Crittenden, V.L. (2011).We’re all connected: The power of the social
media ecosystem. Business Horizons, 54(3), 265-273.
Harwood, N. (2009). An interview-based study of the functions of citations in academic writing
across two disciplines. Journal of Pragmatics, 41, 497-518.
Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.E., & Hoskisson, R.D. (2005). Strategic management: Competitiveness
and globalization. US: South-Western Publishing.
Ho, V. (2011). What functions do intertextuality and interdiscursivity serve in request e-mail
discourse? Journal of Pragmatics, 43(10), 2534-2547.
Horton, J. L. (1995). Integrating corporate communications: The cost-effective use of message
and medium. Westport, CT: Greenwood.
Hyland, K. (1998). Exploring corporate rhetoric: Metadiscourse in the Chairman’s letter.
Journal of Business Communication, 35(2), 224-245.
Hyland, K. (2000). Disciplinary discourses: Social interactions in academic writing. Essex:
Longman Pearson Education.
Hyland, K. (2004). Disciplinary interactions: Metadiscourse in L2 postgraduate writing.
Journal of Second Language Writing, 13, 133–151.
Ikenberry, G. J. (2008). The rise of PRC and the future of the West: Can the liberal system
survive? Foreign Affairs, 87(1), 23-37.
41
Kitchen, P.J., & Schultz, D.E. (2001). Raising the corporate umbrella: Corporate
communications in the 21st century. New York, NY: Palgrave.
Kong, K. (2001). Marketing of belief: Intertextual construction of network marketers'
identities. Discourse & Society, 12, 473-503.
Koskela, M. (2013). Same, same, but different: Intertextual and interdiscursive features of
communication strategy texts. Discourse & Communication, 7(4), 389-407.
Krauss, C., & Bradsher, K. (July 24, 2015). PRC’s global ambitions, cash and strings attached.
The New York Times.
Kristeva, J. (1969). Semiotics. Paris: Editions du Seuil.
Kristeva, J. (1980). Desire in language: A semiotic approach to literature and art. New
York, NY: Columbia University Press.
Kristeva, J. (1986). Word, dialogue and novel. In T. Moi (Eds.), The Kristeva reader (pp. 36–
61). Oxford: Blackwell.
Li, J. (2009). Intertextuality and national identity: Discourse of national conflicts in daily
newspapers in the United States and PRC. Discourse & Society, 20 (1), 85-121.
Lines, V.L. (2003). Corporate reputation in Asia: Looking beyond bottom-line performance.
Journal of Communication Management, 8 (3), 233-45.
Nickerson, C. (2000) Playing the Corporate Language Game: An investigation of the genres
and discourse strategies in English used by Dutch writers working in multinational
corporations. Amsterdam: Rodopi B.V.
O’Connor, E. (2002). Storied business: Typology, intertextuality, and traffic in
entrepreneurial narrative. Journal of Business Communication, 39(1), 36–54.
Pan, Y. L., Scollon, S. W., & Scollon, R. (2002). Professional communication in
international settings. Malden, Massachusetts: Blackwell.
Patton, M. (2016, April 29). PRC’s economy will overtake the U.S. in 2018. Forbes.
42
Retrieved from http://www.forbes.com/sites/mikepatton/2016/04/29/global-economic-
news-PRC-will-surpass-the-u-s-in-2018/#1bb313cd474b
Porter, J.E. (1986). Intertextuality and the discourse community. Rhetoric Review 5 (1), 34-
47.
Salomon, M.F., & Schork, J.M. (2003). Turn diversity to your advantage. Research Technology
Management, 46(4), 37-44.
Schokkenbroek, C. (1999). News stories: structure, time and evaluation. Time & Society, 8(1),
59-98.
Scollon, R. (2004). Intertextuality across communities of practice. In C. L. Moder & A.
Martinovic-Zic (Eds.), Discourse across languages and cultures (pp. 149-176).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing.
Segars, A.H., & Kohut, G.F. (2001). Strategic communication through the World Wide Web:
An empirical model of effectiveness in the CEO's letter to shareholders. Journal of
Management Studies,38(4), 535-556.
van Dijk, T. (Ed.). (1997). Discourse as social interaction. London: Sage.
Ventola, E. (1999). Semiotic spanning at conferences: Cohesion and coherence in and across
conference papers and their discussions. In W. Bublitz, U. Lenk, & E. Ventola (Eds.),
Coherence in spoken and written discourse (pp. 101–124). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Warren, M. (2016). Signalling intertextuality in business emails. English for Specific
Purposes, 42, 26-37.
Williams, M. (1988). Language taught for meetings and language used in meetings: Is there
anything in common? Applied Linguistics, 9, 45-58.
Yeo, R.K., Goh, M. & Tso, S. (2011). Corporate image and reputation of large mainland
Chinese enterprises. Journal of Marketing Communications, 17(3), 195-211.
43
Zorn, T. (2001). Talking heads: The CEOs as Spokesperson. In P. J. Kitchen & D. E. Schultz
(Eds.), Raising the corporate umbrella: Corporate communication in the 21st century
(pp. 23-42). New York, NY: Palgrave.
44
